American F
olklife Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 20.30
 
writings
 
a
rticles, unpublished
 
9
 
I
I 
0359f
 
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS -
 Ithaca,  NY June 1990  (AS GIVEN)
 
"Why Folk Art?" 5Well,l I
've been asked to deliver a keynote
 
-
-
  
- 
address on this topic so I shall give it a try.
 Keynoting is a
 
fairly frequent experience for me these days;  apparently I have
 
attained an age at which I am presumed to have acquired modest
 
quantities C
 '
 taste suitable for getting a
 
)
 /
 
conversatio 
-  
-
 t
's getting harder and
 
harder to t
 Still I shall do
 
my bes t.
 
L
 
-.
 
And s
.
 
-
 -
-trumpet
 
message- 
1
9
 9 
reality but of a kind of
 
triumph
 
nation,
 ,
 our world,  have--in spite
 
of the
 on--nurtured over the
 
centur
 social groups,  each of
 
t
u
 
which 
''-'
 V 
i
ic potential through one or
 
anotl 
SP E C4 
song or story,  pattern or
 
design,
 ?ly don't have to worry about
 
these groups'  expressing
 s in artistic forms;  they
 
haul out my silver
 
--my text--my
 
ies,  our states,  our
 
0
 
0359f
 
2
 
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS -
 Ithaca,  NY June 1990  (AS GIVEN)
 
A
A j
 kJ
 
"Why Folk Art?"-  
Well,l I
've been asked to deliver a keynote
 
4
1
 
4
1
 
address on this topic so I shall give it a try.
 Keynoting is a
 
fairly frequent experience for me these days;  apparently I have
 
attained an age at which I am presumed to have acquired modest
 
quantities of good sense and good taste suitable for getting a
 
conversation started.
 ut as you know,  it's getting harder and
 
harder to be both sensible an
tactful...
 Still I shall do
 
my best.
 
And so here goes.
 I shall once more haul out my silver
 
-
--
- truT
hpet and biow t-he char e.
 My charge--my text--my
 
message--which is not only a message of reality but of a kind of
 
triumph actually--is that jGur communities,  our states,  our
 
nation,  our continent,  our hemisphere,  our world,  have--in spite
 
of the massive forces of homogenization--nurtured over the
 
centuries countless kinds of smaller social groups,  each of
 
which has expressed its inborn dynamic potential through one or
 
another artistic activity--through song or story,  pattern or
 
design,  dance or ceremony.
 We simply don't have to worry about
 
these groups'  expressing themselves in artistic forms;  they
 
- 2 -
already have,  and are,  and will.
 
Some people call such traditional modes of expression by
 
particular ethnic,
 
groups,  folk art.
 
Folk arts, by this
 
racial, occupational,  regional or religious
 
Let's stick with that idea for a minute.
 
description,  always emerge from a group of
 
people who share something in common; they always exist as a
 
part of a larger surround.
 They tend to be learned informally,
 
passed on from one person to another, utilizing a shared
 
aesthetic style characteristic of the group--for example,
 
Hawaiian hula; African-American blues; Pueblo pottery; Puerto
 
Rican santos. 
Now there is nothing to prevent,  say,  an Alaskan
 
Eskimo from learning to hula, but the performance will probably
 
be described as "that charming moment when the Eskimo gentleman
 
did a Hawaiian hula."
 It is highly unlikely that his dance will
 
be considered to be an Eskimo hula--not unless lots of Eskimos
 
perform lots of hulas over time.
 
So we should perhaps establish a distinction between folk
  
arts (hulas)  and folk artists 
(people who dance hulas).
 Folk
 
arts stay relatively stable in terms of aesthetic content and
 
style; they change in fundamental ways very slowly.
 In general,
 
-3 -
folk artists are a pretty stable 1t as well;  this is a very
 
conservative field,  actually.
 There do appear,  however,  to be
 
at least three kinds of folk artists. 
As I have said before,  from the point of view of the folk
 
group itself, probably the most culturally valuable folk artists
 
are those who have been brought up within the tradition,
 
learning the arts as they live the life that the art itself
 
stems from and represents.
 Such people are sometimes called
 
"tradition bearers" or "culture bearers."
 They exist in other
 
fields of art as well.
 I have always thought that Nadia
 
Boulanger must have been a tradition bearer in the field of
 
classical piano.
 
Then there are those folk artists who have been brought up
 
within a tradition and who determine that they will develop it
 
into new ways.
 They are the innovators,  the "new wavers."
 
Sometimes they bring it off and create a refreshing and exciting
 
new artistic style that becomes accepted by others and gets
 
added into the cultural repertoire.
 More -
 even most -
 often,
 
they don't,  and they sink into an honorable but unrewarded
 
oblivion, unheard of by future generations.
 Again,  this same
 
-4 -
situation exists in many art forms.
 It's hard to be an
 
innovator.
 
Finally,  there are practitioners who have not been brought
 
up in the tradition but who determine,  at some point in their
 
lives,  to learn it.
 This is a natural human impulse--to admire
 
deeply,  to the point of commitment--somebody else's art form,
 
and it should never be denigrated.
 Such practices stretch the
 
aesthetic muscles and increase the humane and tender side of an
 
artist's character.
 The "outside" learner--the "revivalist,"
 
the "folky," the "interpreter," must however remember that the
 
oncoming phase,  the future development of the art form he or she
 
has adopted will invariably arise from the authentic
 
artists--the in-born,  in-bred culture carriers, whether
 
old-fashioned conservatives or young radicals.
 The local
 
Armenian oudist, you see,  is likely to stay working away at his
 
music long after the eclectic young outside learner is off
 
trying his hand at Chinese erhu or Appalachian hoedown fiddle.
 
It's a question of staying with it,  in large part,  and culture
 
members just stay with it longer than outsiders,  (though there
 
is more to it than that, of course).
 
- 5 -
Over the past fourteen years the Folk Arts Program at the
 
National Endowment for the Arts has labored at a single
 
objective:  to develop ways through whidh the folk artists of our
 
nation can step forward and shine both at home and abroad.
 Our
 
primary focus has been first on the culture carriers,  second on
 
the cultural innovators,  last of all on the outsiders.
 We
 
developed these priorities because of our primary concern with
 
nourishing the field itself,  and it has produced unexpedtedly
 
high dividends.
 There are these days a truly startling number
 
of world-class performing folk artists in our nation,
 
indigenous,  immigrant and transient,  .
 (Visual artists,
 
normally lagging behind,  are nowadays coming up fast.)
 
that Carnegie Hall during its centennial celebration is
 
several weeks to a folk arts concert series
 
is only one
 
The fact
 
devoting
 
evidence
 
of the present availability of,  as well as,  interest in a
 
serious approach to the presenting of folk arts.
 
So I return to my title--Why Folk Arts?
 Why do otherwise
 
sensible people consider devoting
 
this complex field?
 Quite simply
 
art forms traditional to the many
 
time and money to presenting
 
because the
 
very best of the
 
groups that make up this
 
country do indeed comprise the emotional core of our nation.
 We
 
-6
 
are a multi-cultural nation.
 We must begin to behave as though
 
we actually realize (instead of simply mouth) that fact.
 And as
 
presenters, we must begin to look beyond what we may have
 
assumed as normative quantities and methods of presenting our
 
glorious variability.
 
The pesky word "folk" has indeed gotten in our way.
 [Some
 
people say we should get rid of it entirely.]
 For one thing it
 
has, over time, picked up a plethora of definitions, most of
 
which actually contradict each other in important ways.
 (I
 
hope, by the way,  that we can continue this meeting with the
 
definitional structure I
've outlined at the beginning of my
 
talk.
 It may not be the only one, but it does,  I think,  let
 
most people in and we do need to have a shared framework of
 
reference if we're to get anywhere at all.)
 An even more
 
irritating characteristic of the term "folk" is that it has
 
acquired totally opposite values with different groups.
 
Consider.
 There are some people -
 like many revivalists -
 who
 
want desperately to be called folk artists and are deeply
 
wounded if the definition you are using excludes them; there are
 
others like members of some Indian nations or classical Asian
 
musicians who truly resent being "lumped" together as folk
 
- 7 -
artists when they do not think they are anything of the kind.
 
Part of this is bacause almost everybody thinks of folk art
 
as rural,  or possibly blue-collar,  art--dancing,  as my friend
 
Barre Toelken says, with the elbows out.
 And,  because many
 
Anglo-Americans feel deep conflict between what they envision as
 
their "back-country" ways and the styles they believe they must
 
assume to get ahead in the more "sophisticated" world,  there has
 
been until recently little impetus to present North Carolina
 
fiddling or South Carolina seagrass basketry as important art
 
forms.
 (They might well have been so honored in other more
  
self-confident cultures.) 
It's hard to remember back that far
 
nowadays,  but the initial presentation of Appalachian country
 
crafts and music under federal sponsorship on the National Mall
 
by the venerable Smithsonian Institution in 1966  (only 24 years
 
ago) was a really radical move for its time.
 
And how did the Smithsonian bring it off?
 Why,  they set up
 
rough-hewn temporary platform stages sheltered by circus style
 
tenting fabric overhangs.
 They created a great good-humored
 
all-American county fair atmosphere on the Mall where Mr.  and
 
Mrs. America could come and bring the children and show them how
 
- 8
 
things used to look back home in Indiana, or Alaska, or Nigeria
 
or wherever.
 This wasn't a small trick at the time; perhaps you
 
have forgotten or never knew the sixties and seventies, but
 
bringing thousands of people together in peaceable celebration
 
was a difficult thing to carry off.
 
When I first arrived in Washington in the summer of 1975 to
 
help present the California Heartland at the Festival of
 
American Folklife that year,  I was escorted around the grounds
 
by the Festival Director, Ralph Rinzler.
 I already knew the
 
ground-breaking principles governing the Festival -
 only
 
authentic traditional artists presented both sympathetically and
 
accurately by scholars acquainted both with the community and
 
the art form.
 Now he was giving me the domestic details.
 He
 
said,  there are some things I tell everybody about how to run a
 
good outdoor festival:  first no matter where you are on the
 
grounds,  there has to be palatable food and drink easily 
available; then, no matter where you are on the grounds, you
 
ought to be able to look around you and see at least three
 
interesting things going on--if you can, perhaps you will decide
 
to stroll over to the less crowded one.
 Then, never include big
 
names because half of your crowd will come planning to hear only
 
-9
 
the big name and they will reject and ignore the other worthy
 
artists;  and finally,  take your sound budget and triple it.
 
I go into this much detail only because I think Ralph's
 
extremely sound advice was slanted towards answering a number of
 
problems specific to the time, the period,  the event,  and the
 
participating cultures.
 He was trying first of all to ensure
 
social peace at his big party and he had selected a
 
middle-American model--the county fair--in which most spectators
 
would feel comfortable,  and enhanced it to accommodate large
 
numbers of uncomprehending visitors (who never thought that that
 
was what they would be looking at when they came to Washington),
 
as well as large numbers of homesick and nostalgic Washington
 
government employees.
 
attempts to create and
 
period when the fabric
 
His prescriptions were intelligent
 
magnify social communication during a
 
of that communication was in pieces.
 
He sized up his problem well and he handled it beautifully
 
and he presented us with an inspiring example -
 down to the
 
smallest well-thought out detail.
 But although I recommend we
 
follow the Smithsonian example, we need not use only the
 
Smithsonian model, as democratic a venue as it may be.
 For if
 
-
 10 -
 
my definitions for folk art are acceptable, we are dealing with
 
the literal hearts blood of the many different peoples who make
 
up the citizenry of the United States.
 Should we not
 
investigate and consider the now classic outdoor festival as
 
only one of the contexts suitable for presenting the work of
 
trans-American artists?
 Should
 
prayerfully and in great detail
 
of the event,  the participating
 
every presenter not consider
 
the time,  the period,  the nature
 
cultures and make decisions
 
accordingly?
 I say this simply because it appears to me that
 
many presentations of folk performances even in major auditoria
 
somehow seem to smell of the tent.
 They lack the kind of
 
creative imagination we might call upon,  if we will labor hard
 
to establish more wide ranging presentational frames.
 
Should we,  for example,  invariably sacrifice everything
 
visual for the accommodation of everything auditory?
 Perhaps we
 
should triple our lighting budget.
 And almost all non-Anglo
 
performing art forms demand some movement on the part of the
 
musician; tying him or her down to a single upstanding
 
microphone has serious artistic implications.
 The individual
 
miking of all the accompanying musicians transfers the total
 
musical effect into the hands of the sound-man at the board
 
rather than to the performing group.
 In large halls this
 
transfer of control may be essential; we must however carefully
 
consider its implications.
 
Well.
 This is my own particular hobby horse and I will not
 
trot off on it interminably.
 I realize perfectly well that
 
getting adequate sound reinforcement for New England ballad
 
singers and Cajun dance bands and Ojibwe drums all in a single
 
concert is hard--but, what the heck,  if it wasn't hard,  it
 
wouldn't be so much fun, would it?  Let me restate the problem
 
as I see it.
 We tend to apply a single successful model -
 the
 
outdoor tent fair to all kinds of traditional performers,  some
 
of whom might appear much more impressively in different
 
surroundings and in different presentational rhythms and
 
scenarios.
 How about letting the visual element dominate or at
 
least compete with the auditory?
 How about setting things up
 
so the musicians can move from place to place?  How about at
 
least keeping the musicians and dancers on the same level,  as
 
Joe Wilson puts it?
 How about examining the street or the
 
social hall or the castle or the market as venues for
 
performance as comfortable as the tent?  And how about keeping
  
the tent,  the lovely traditional outdoor festival,  alive and
 
F
 
-
 12 -
 
well too?
 We can have it all.
 How about more frequently
 
forming common cause with other art forms -
 theater,  film,
 
photography,  some of the new artistic inventions I don't even
 
know the names of -
 to help us with our shared goal -
 to present
 
back to the people their own glowing artistic creations.
 
What a great idea this conference is.
 And if  I will just stop
 
talking, we can begin to get down to it.