Date 
November 2, 2020 
Time 
4:30pm 
Interviewer 
Edward Y. Millar 
Interviewee 
Erick Rudolph 
Location 
Erick’s Garage 
Audio log 
Prepared by: 
Edward Y. Millar 
Collection 
Number 
AFC 2020/013    
The Ransomville Speedway: Dirt Track Workers in Western New York 
 
Archie Green Fellowship Ransomville Speedway Interviews,  
American Folklife Center, Library of Congress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fieldnotes 
Pre-Interview 
I arrived to Erick’s house in Ransomville around 4:30pm. With daylight savings time the nights are 
starting to get a bit earlier and earlier, but was still bright and easy enough out to find. As Monday is my 
work from home day due to Covid / staffing regulations, I left from my house in Lewiston, saving about 
only five to ten minutes. One of the good things of living in a rural area is it is pretty easy to get around 
to new places without the aid of a GPS, as the roads are a bit more limited. Navigating in the part of 
Niagara County between Lake Ontario and the Niagara Escarpment is even easier as that huge cliff 
provides an easy visual reminder of what direction your heading (e.g. if on left, you’re heading west, if 
on right, you’re heading east, if behind you you’re heading north). One look at a map is often all you 
need out here. Though there are some confusing turns / roads, it isn’t too hard to get repositioned/your 
bearings. 
When I got to Erick’s place, I double checked I had the right address, rang the doorbell and Erick greeted 
me at the door over the barking of his family’s dog, and suggested to do the interview in the garage. I 
waited out around the side, but didn’t realize that he meant for me to head on in around the side of the 
garage, and he came out a few minutes later to check if I was coming in or not.  
Erick’s garage is of a significant size, and does not contain any tools or vehicles for the most part, aside 
from a side by side. Erick explained that he lives nextdoor/all right around his family, and they have all 
that equipment/gear in their shop, as that is where they do all of the work on the cars. In the garage 
though there is some hunting and fishing gear, along with a hot tub, a TV, and a side table with two of 
his helmets. Erick’s dog is quietly barking and whining behind the door to the garage when he closed it, 
and he explains that she’ll keep doing that until she comes and sees what’s going on, and asks if it is ok, 
which it is, and I share a bit about the dog I have.  
We setup for the interview and I spoke a bit more about the project and where the interview would end 
up being located, and providing him a copy, getting paperwork signed. All the typical/usual stuff. 
Although we talked about it over the phone when first contacted him over the phone about it, wanted 
just to go over everything again as I’ve found that helpful for myself in also trying to hone in on the 
‘elevator speech’ of being a folklorist and what we do.  
Interview 
After the usual ‘intro card’/ audio stamp introduction I’ve been doing for this project, we jump right into 
the interview.  
Erick comes from a family of racers including his father and grandfather, and from my conversation with 
some other folks, is held up as one of the most successful currently active drivers to come out of 
Ransomville. Erick is a full-time professional driver, racing across New York State and the 
Midwest/Northeast, and is sponsored by many of the region’s big companies (including blue cross blue 
shield). Erick got his start with indoor kart racing, and spent some time in the ‘TQ Midget’ (Three 
Quarter Midget) class of cars, before moving into Modifieds, which is the class he has been racing since 
then. We spent much of the interview.  
Unfortunately, as my knowledge of racing culture and the ‘mechanical bits’ and details of racing is still in 
its early stages despite some prepwork, I did have some difficulty in trying to articulate some of the 
follow-up questions that came out of the interview. Erick was exceedingly patient though, and helped 
try and figure out what I was trying to ask at different stages of the interview, like when I kept asking 
and talking about the cars as if they were one whole thing, when a lot of the questions I was trying to 
get to were more about the ‘chassis’ or the different parts of it.  
Throughout the interview, we focused especially/mostly on his experience as a driver and everything 
that goes into that: from the preparing for races through to what a typical day for him looks like of races, 
to what he’s looking for within the race itself. Although the interview is understated at certain times, 
and there is some trouble in articulating things as all interviews run into that issue of difficulty in how 
hard it is to describe something that comes natural, the interview I thought was great and really covered 
and gave a great look at the mentality and specifics of being a professional driver.  
Post Interview 
With the conclusion of the interview, thanked Erick again for having me over, when he can expect a 
google drive link to download a copy of the interview (I have been telling everyone two days as with all 
other work responsibilities I sometimes can’t get to it the day after), and on any updates I’ll share as the 
project progresses. I pack up my gear, and head outside after goodbyes, and backout the driveway, 
careful on the edge of the street as the night is nearly pitchblack, with it being overcast and no 
streetlight outside, before making my way back to Lewiston.