NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview April 2, 2017 
Grave, Hector ~ Oral History Interview 
Corinn Williams 
Grave, Hector. Interview by Corinn Williams Workers on the New Bedford Waterfront. New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. December 14, 2016. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Hector Grave, April 2, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Hector Grave 
Facts about this person: 
Age 33 
Sex Male 
Occupation Owner of Lionel’s Nets 
Residence (Town where lives) New Bedford 
Ethnic background (if known) Guatemalan, Maya K’iche 
Interviewer: Corinn Williams [CW] 
Transcriber: Corinn Williams [CW] 
Interview location: Community Economic Development Center, New Bedford 
Date of interview: April 2, 2017 
Key Words 
Gil nets, self-employment, ropes, buoys, quality, sacrifice, needles, knifes, gloves New Bedford, 
Portland, Maine, Guatemalan, 
Abstract 
Hector Grave came to New Bedford from Guatemala at age 14 and went to work on the 
waterfront. He worked for several years at gillnet companies until starting his own business, 
Lionel’s Nets, which makes and repairs gillnets. He discusses the challenges and sacrifice of 
self-employment as well as the passion for making a quality product. 
Interview with Hector Grave, April 2, 2017 
Index 
[00:00] Intro; self-employed, repairs and makes gillnets. Came to US in 1998 from Quiche 
Guatemala at 14 years old with his mother. There were Central Americans in New Bedford at 
that time. He learned to speak Spanish in school in Guatemala, but he didn’t go to school in the 
US although he would have liked to. 
[05:00] His first job was at a seafood plant, it was hard work; a job for men but he was a child. 
He learned a little bit of everything: packing scallops, loading. Worked at a warehouse then got a 
job making nets. A friend showed him how to make nets and he picked it up quickly. The job 
was near his house, 4-5 people at the company. Then he got another job at another net making 
company. He started making nets in 1999 and has been making nets ever since. Now works for 
himself, it is a lot of responsibility to meet customers needs. The work is good, but it includes 
long hours with a lot of sacrifice of time away from your children. Starting a business is hard, 
you lose money at first. He didn’t have customers at first, but he developed his customer base 
through word of mouth. 
[10:00] At first he had to build up his business, he worked for 2-3 months then had no work and 
a lot of expenses. He almost quit but had faith and hope to continue, now he is doing well. Most 
customers are from Maine, some from New Bedford. 
There is a difference between the nets used for state and for federal waters. Each net is about 300 
feet long, 15-20 feet wide. There are nets for monkfish, flounder, redfish and cod. Each have 
different sizes for the openings, 5.5 inches to 14 inches. To make a net you need two kinds of 
rope, one that floats, one that sinks that has lead inside. The other rope has buoys so it floats. 
Each net has 50 buoys. The nets are left in the water for 8 hours or overnight then the fish is 
harvested. 
[15:26] Making a net. The two lines are attached to the net with thread. Inside of nets are 
imported from suppliers and through an import broker on the customs paperwork. He learned 
how to do this without involving too many intermediaries. 
[20:03] Grave likes to learn how to do the business by trail and error. Fortunate not to have made 
many errors. He hires people to help on the production; it is impossible to do it alone, especially 
when there is a rush order. For example, the 15* on the month he has 2-3 customers who need 
their nets by a certain date. If they don’t have their net they can’t fish even if they have a permit. 
The regulations affect a lot of people, for example if a permit is for 5,000 lbs but the fishermen 
gets 7,000 lbs. that have to throw it away and they lose money. So they don’t have a stable 
income and it depends on the price of fish and the demand. Some fish get a very low price. There 
are times of the year when there are few orders for nets. But you learn how to adapt to these ups 
and downs. 
Tools used: needles, knifes, gloves to protect hands, nothing special. The upfront investment can 
be costly if you don’t have customers and you buy materials that are not very popular, or the 
fishermen are not permitted to use that type, even if you give them a good price. But if one 
Interview with Hector Grave, April 2, 2017 
3 
started a business with customers it does cost a lot of money to get started. Some nets cost 
$4.00/lb. You can’t buy much with $10,000. It is expensive. 
[25:47] Grave didn’t have experience running a business before, he only knew about how to 
make nets. The regulations changed the kinds of nets that can be used to conserve the fish. He 
has noticed the reduction in fishing over the years, some have left the industry. They were 
spending more but earning less. His greatest challenge is finding labor because of the specialized 
nature of net making. People claim to know how to make nets but they don’t make them well. 
He compares netmakers to mechanics that are good ones and bad ones. He doesn’t make nets for 
the money but for the passion for his work and his philosophy is quality over quantity. Most 
other netmakers do it for the quantity they can make 15-20 nets a week, but he makes 12-13 a 
week that are very well made and he gets no complaints from his customers. Reputation as a 
good net maker is very important. 
[31:09] Advice to others who might start in this business is that it takes a lot of effort and 
sacrifice. Especially starting a business; he almost gave up and wanted to get a job where he gets 
a check every week. Sometimes you have to wait a month or two to get paid for a net. He has to 
pay his workers every week and buy the materials but you have to wait for the money. It is not 
easy. 
He has three children but he wouldn’t advise them to work in his business; he wants something 
better for them. Maybe he would like for them to help him but he thinks it is too much of a 
physical job. He would like his children to study a professional career. He wants to give them the 
opportunities that he never had. 
[35:33] He is one of the people with more experience in netmaking than others he knows. Now 
all the gill netmakers in New Bedford are Guatemalan, he is not sure why, they like to do hard 
work. It’s difficult to find other nationalities to do this kind of work. It’s a job that men do, it is 
physical work and that is why it’s all men who do it. 
Explains how some nets are patched and repaired. 
[40:09] Discussion about connection between netmaking and weaving. He was too young so 
didn’t learn how to weave in Guatemala. Customers are in New England, he delivers to Maine 
but likes to travel on the weekends to avoid the traffic. Travels a lot to Portland, has customers in 
New Bedford, Hull, Portsmouth, Newport and Little Compton, Rhode Island. 
His desire is to continue his success and to obtain the American Dream, you can achieve it but it 
requires a lot of sacrifice and time away from his children. 
[45:16] End of Recording 
Interview with Hector Grave, April 2, 2017 
4