AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
Civil Rights History Project 
Intendew completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2015 
Interviewee: Reginald Robinson 
Interview Date: December 11, 2015 
Location: Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 
Interviewer: Emilye Crosby 
Videographer: John Bishop 
Length: approximately 3 hours, 27 minutes 
START OF RECORDING 
Female 1 : From the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. 
Emilye Crosby: Good morning, this is Emilye Crosby with Mr. Reggie 
Robinson on December 11, 2015, at the Library of Congress with the Civil Rights 
History Project cosponsored by the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian National 
Museum of African American History and Culture. And John Bishop is also with us. 
Good morning, Mr. Robinson. 
Reggie Robinson: Good morning, y’all. 
EC: It’s nice to have you here. Fm so glad you agreed to participate in the 
project. 
RR: Well, it’s been an uphill struggle, as you know, but there come a time. 
EC: There come a time, yeah. 
RR: There come a time. 
1 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: Fm glad you’re with us. Can you tell us when and where you were born 
and about your family? 
RR: I was bom in Baltimore, Maryland, October 2, 1939, to Leroy and 
Leovester, L-E-O-V-E-S-T-E-R, Robinson. My mother’s maiden name was Jenkins. I 
had one brother—I have one brother still living who is the oldest. His name was Leroy. I 
had a sister named Lula Jean and she was between the two of us. So it was only three 
siblings. 
EC : You were the b aby? 
RR: I was the youngest, yes. 
EC: What did your parents do for a living? 
RR: My dad worked at Bethlehem Steel for thirty-nine years until he retired 
and he died a month after he retired. 
EC : Oh, that’s terrible. 
RR: Yes, yes. But my mother did off and on kind of housework and stuff. She 
didn’t really go to work until I was in like first grade. Then they started hiring babysitters 
and then I’d go to neighbors’ houses while she went out and did piecework or whatever 
to bring in a little bit more. I went to Dunbar High School until about the tenth and a half 
grades when I discovered that I didn’t quite understand what French was going to do for 
me. [Laughter] But I was looking out the window and I knew what I could do on the 
streets. So the streets won. And I was doing pretty well out there until a little job that I 
had kind of fell apart for all kinds of reasons, and then I was frustrated because I didn’t 
know what to do and it was all kinds of things to get into. I have a cousin by the name of 
Josephine Thorn who at that time was a supervisor at Social Security and she had went to 
2 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
a small business college called Cortez Peters Business College. She convinced my 
father—well, she convinced me first—that I needed to stop doing what I was doing and do 
something. So she convinced my father to give me another chance and I enrolled into 
Cortez Peters Business College. 
Now, Cortez Peters Business College was founded by a black man by the name of 
Cortez Peters. It was either Royal typewriter or Underwood typewriter that financed him 
because he could type somewhere like 150 words a minute. They advertised by having 
him type with an entire orchestra, but they gave him money and he established three 
schools, one in Washington, DC, one in Baltimore, and one in Chicago. And these 
schools basically was teaching blacks how to pass government tests, [5:00] teaching girls 
how to do shorthand, they taught guys business law, accounting, and everybody had to 
take typing, and learn how to make and type one of them stencils and you learned what 
blackout was and all of those little fancy office things. 
Then in [19]60 when the students at Greensboro sat in and things broke loose 
there was a group that was formed in Baltimore called the Civic Interest Group. It was a 
student group. And at the same time the dean of my school, Walter Dixon, was also the 
city councilman in Baltimore who had just introduced a public accommodations bill. He 
kind of ordered me, I was kind of like under his thumb because he would keep telling me 
my daddy didn’t send me there to waste money, so he kept me under his thumb until he 
sent me to represent our school at the big school meetings. When I got there I met a lot of 
people from all of the colleges in Maryland, it looked like, but Morgan was kind of like 
the head honcho and things. So I got involved with the sit-ins around Baltimore until I 
got involved—I worked my way into the group until we started moving from direct action 
3 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
to voter registration where we got some money to do voter registration and at that time it 
was concentrated in one general area which was Clarence Mitchell Junior’s area. And we 
raised, oh, I would think it was about thirty thousand people in a very short period of time. 
So monies was coming in and money had to be accounted for and we had an 
advisory group and everything. So I got to be, because I knew a little bit about 
accounting and I had worked my way into the group, I became the treasurer of the Civic 
Interest Group. We did that and then at the June meeting which Clarence Mitchell went 
to and came back and reported that the overall SNCC group was getting ready to move 
towards voter registration and direct action. And also at that time Clarence’s 
grandmother had said that the NAACP—she was president of the NAACP and she had 
said that she was not going to get us out of jail anymore, bails, and everything. And then 
Clarence had to make a decision as to whether to continue with us or go with his family. 
So Clarence went with his family so that seat at SNCC from Maryland became open. I 
opted to take the seat to get to go. I won the seat. The night before I left we were at a 
party and I got hit in the eye with a pretzel so before I went I had to get some eye kind of 
stuff done. So I had this black patch over my eye. 
So my orders was from CIG because by this time everything was happening in the 
South. We were getting the Student Voice and we were in contact with all of these guys 
like Chuck McDew, and everything going on in Nashville and everything that’s 
happening everywhere, we’re in touch with it. So my orders were to bring the next 
meeting back to Baltimore and at that time King had also stepped in because he’s gotten 
the word that we’re thinking about moving on Mississippi. So him and his boys is out 
saying, “Y’all can’t do that, you’re going to get killed” and everything else. So I got to 
4 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
the SNCC meeting in Louisville, Kentucky, in July [10:00] of—no, it was June. I went in 
June of [ 19]61. When I went into the meeting of course I introduced myself and of 
course everybody thought I got injured in battle. I didn’t tell anybody. [Laughter] 
EC: You’re looking like a wounded warrior. 
RR: So of course they moved around me very easily and we were there for the 
weekend so this is, I guess, Friday night we’re coming in and introducing ourselves and 
by Saturday we’re having—we had gone all through Saturday fussing and cussing and 
everything and so we’re now at Anne Braden’s house on Saturday night, but I’m still not 
in with the guys because they don’t know who I am. I don’t know if I should say it, but 
Clarence didn’t really have a reputation of being inside the group and working. He was 
known to be doing other things. So I was trying to find out what was going on anyway. I 
was standing on Anne Braden’s porch drinking a beer by myself and this little lady walks 
up to me and she says, “Son, I know who you are.” And I says, “No, I don’t know 
nobody in this group.” And she says, “Where’s your people from?” And I told her my 
father was from Smithfield, Virginia, and then she says, “Where’s your mom from?” I 
said, “Littleton, North Carolina.” She says, “What was your mama’s middle name?” I 
said, “Jenkins.” She said, “What was your mama’s first name?” I said, “Leovester.” She 
said, “Oh, now I know who you are. You’re McKinley.” I said, “No, I got an Uncle 
McKinley.” She says, “I know. You’re exactly like him.” This was Miss Ella Baker. 
She says, “You’re just like him. He worked for me in New York. And I know your 
cousin Overdell in Baltimore.” The church I went to was involved in all kinds of Baptist 
kinds of connections and stuff so it was a recognized church in the Baptist conference so 
she would have known my aunt—damn, can’t even think of my aunt’s name. But anyway 
5 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
my cousin Overdell and her mama was very much up in the church and so that’s why she 
knew them, and very active in the community. 
So with that happening then Miss Baker kind of smoothed a way and I became a 
different kind of light, I guess, to Chuck and the boys and they began to hear what I was 
saying until I won the next meeting back to Baltimore to discuss this whole thing of 
going down. In the meantime Bob has already gone to Mississippi. It’s now about 
August, it’s getting close to August. We have the meeting and one of the first things we 
do is we were having this big rally in Baltimore at the Masonic temple and we were 
going to split the proceeds with King. King was the noted speaker coming. Everybody 
knew he was coming to town to be with us and convinced us not to do whatever and 
we’re going to have this big rally and everything. So before the rally started I convinced 
everybody, our group, that what we would do is we would open the meeting before the 
preachers got there and have our people deploy and we would make the collection as 
soon as the people sat down. So then we did that and then we split the money between 
SNCC and CIG. So by the time Wyatt Tee Walker and the preachers were going through 
their thing at the rally and Wyatt went to say, “It’s time for the collection” somebody 
pulled Wyatt’s coat and said, “The collection’s been done.” [Laughter] [15:00] 
EC: No wonder Wyatt wasn’t giving you y’all the money. 
RR: So—[Break in recording] hadn’t been for Dean Dixon, Miss Baker, and 
then I go on and do the rest. 
EC: So you were telling me about having the collection before. 
RR: Yeah, so we did the collection and we split the money between CIG and 
SNCC and of course I said what happened to Wyatt. So then we went on with the 
6 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
meeting and everything and then it was decided that SNCC was going to do voter 
registration and direct action. Somebody had to go in and be with Bob [and this is?] Bob. 
Nobody was saying anything at the time so I raised my hand. I was also recognized by 
the time I made my report about what voter registration we did in Baltimore, they thought 
I was a voter registration expert, but all we did in Baltimore was have a sound truck, 
school buses, and went around with big music and people came out of the house, got on 
the buses, we took them down to Gay Street, had big long lines, had the big press out 
there, had hot dogs, had a big party, people signed up thousands of people and a big scene 
and took people back home. Party in the neighborhood. Well, they thought that I knew 
what I was doing. 
EC: That kind of party isn’t going to work in Mississippi. [Laughter] 
RR: So I was elected to go Mississippi. 
EC: How did you feel about that? 
RR: What, going to Mississippi? 
EC: Yeah. 
RR: Like I said, I mean I—I had done what I could do in Baltimore, I thought. 
And without going into a lot of stuff I would have probably had a lot more trouble in 
Baltimore than I had in Mississippi, than what I did going to Mississippi and using my 
energies for that than what I would have done if I stayed in Baltimore. My life was in 
just as much jeopardy so I chose to be productive, as I thought I was being. So then, as 
Em taking off for—thinking Fm—I take off from Baltimore to Atlanta where Em to go 
change trains and go to Mississippi, go to the delta and meet Bob. When I get to Atlanta 
I meet Ed King who was our executive director at the time and Ed meets me at the train 
7 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
station really in top hat and tails. [Laughter] He had just integrated the national 
symphony of Atlanta that night and he had been partying all night long with the people he 
had done it with. So he took me to the office and sat me down and he went home and 
changed and then he took me around Atlanta to introduce me to the people of Atlanta and 
of course SCLC at that time, we were on Auburn Avenue here and King’s office was 
right across the street. So Ed took me in and who do we meet coming in the door but 
Wyatt Tee and Ed says, in his jovial kind of way, “Oh, Wyatt, Ed like for you to meet our 
new field secretary” and Wyatt looked at me and said, “Oh, I know which one that is. 
That’s the one from Baltimore.” Of course when Ed went to someplace else and Wyatt 
and I had a private conversation Wyatt wanted me to work for SCLC of course, but 
anyway I said, “No, I’m settled.” 
EC: You know, they were really recruiting hard. 
RR: Oh, yeah. 
EC: They put out a press release that they had Moses and Marion, I think. 
RR: Yeah, and Diane. And Charlie. They had everybody listed in there. But 
anyway where was I? 
EC: After Wyatt tried to recruit you. [20:00] 
RR: Then we went back to the office and stuff and Ed got the word that I was 
not to go to the delta but to meet Bob in McComb. So I took off from Atlanta, went to 
New Orleans, changed trains in New Orleans, took the Illinois Central up to McComb. 
At McComb I was met by George Heads who was a local cab driver. George became a 
very good friend of mine. And incidentally, all through this until today, I don’t drive. So 
George took me from the train station to CC Bryant’s house where Bob and CC was 
8 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
waiting for me. And Bob introduced me around, I met Bob, and we talked, and I met the 
locals. Then I was introduced to Mr. Webb Owens who was better known as Supercool 
Daddy. And I was told that Supercool Daddy was the man to see for—to do everything. 
So Supercool Daddy and I walked on off. We went first to Mama Cotton’s house on 
Wall Street, set up housing, set up a deal to pay her. We went to Mr. Plevis’s restaurant 
and Miss Quinn and set up a little thing to pay them. Went down and opened up a bank 
account in SNCC’s name in the town and an account at the stationery store where I rented 
a mimeograph machine and stencils and whiteout and all of the stuff. We were doing 
business with the city because that was part of the plans that we had thought about. I 
mean you do business, they kind of look at it in a different kind of way, we thought. 
But anyway, we went on and we got set up over the top [Berglin?] school, over 
the top of the supermarket was the Masonic temple. We set up a school there where we 
were encouraging people to come in. We did canvassing and it was my own fears, but I 
was canvassing in the projects with some of the local kids and there were some workmen, 
I could see them in this ground, in this sewer hole, in this ground hole. They were 
working, they were minding their business, but they were white men. I was thinking that 
they knew what I was doing so I was conscious of them every moment, almost to the 
point that I forgot about the kids that I had with me. But that was about one of the only 
times that I had that kind of a fear, and they weren’t even paying any attention to me. So 
I got over that and then we went on and we set up the school. And in the school—the law 
of the state was you had to interpret the constitution of Mississippi in order to register to 
vote. You had to be able to read it and then interpret. And the way the registrar would 
do it when you come down, he would take the Constitution and flip the pages and turn to 
9 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
any page in the book and say, “Write that, read that” and if my interpretation is not what 
it’s supposed to be then you’ve failed. 
So we had to first of all teach people to read and write. We had to encourage 
people to come for the reasons that they were coming for. Then after we’d get them to 
read and write and be able to have the courage to even take the test, we had to encourage 
them to go down. So that’s when Bob would say that we have to always stick with these 
people and walk with them wherever they go. And that’s when we started taking them 
down to the registrar’s office. And Bob got [25:00] beaten and later on of course Mr. 
Herbert Lee got killed in the cotton gin by State Representative Hurst. And that’s when 
the kids start sitting in and the kids start doing direct action and the town got involved. 
Because one of the things that I was told in one of my first training sessions was 
that we were not going into these cities to stay. You were going to either duplicate 
yourself or leave something there in order for people to hang onto or put them in touch 
with—put a group together that could connect with SNCC that SNCC could support any 
activity that’s going on. But you want to go on and build something and leave something. 
Not to go and make a home there. 
EC: Do you know where that was coming from, that way of thinking? 
RR: Came from Ella. Raising from the bottom up. I mean if you’re going in 
and thinking you know it all and you’re going to stay there forever to do it you ain’t 
passing on nothing, you ain’t teaching nothing, you ain’t building nothing. You’re just 
building your own kind of whatever you’re looking for. You’re not giving anything to 
anybody. So it was always important to know that what you’re doing is you’re building 
things for somebody else to build on. So you’re always working yourself out of a job. 
10 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
So of course the kids got involved and they start sitting in and everything and Curtis 
Hayes and Hollis Watkins and Bobby Talbot, I think Brenda, a couple of others, went 
down to the bus station I think it was and got arrested. And again, Bob said that we had 
to support these kids and we also could use the PR. Like we’d leave them in for a certain 
amount of time and then we’d bail them out because we could use the PR and stuff. But 
Bob said, “Somebody’s got to go and make sure that they feel comfortable in jail.” And 
this was the first time that they had done that. 
So I got elected to go and visit them in the jail. They were down in Magnolia. I 
got together with George Heads who said, as I got in the car, as we’re driving from Pike 
County down to Magnolia, he pulls out a silver handled pistol and says, “Don’t worry 
about a thing, sit tight.” [Laughter] So we rode down to Magnolia and I was dressed— 
and one of the things when we started with SNCC, you’re always supposed to be dressed 
in shirt and tie. You’re always supposed to be giving off another kind of image. So that 
day I was into my black suit looking like a lawyer or a minister or whatever and had my 
attaché case. I never will forget it, this old tobacco chewing guy was sitting on the side 
of this stairwell going up to these stairs and I walked up and he says, “Nigger, what do 
you want?” And I looked him dead in the eye—we were kind of like—he was sitting on a 
stoop kind of and I was looking him dead in the eye and I says, “My name is Reginald 
Robinson. I’m a field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. 
I’m here to see” and I pulled out my list, “And I’m here to see Curtis Hayes, Hollis 
[Mumbles], thank you.” And he said, “You one of them northern niggers. I ought not to 
let you up in here.” 
11 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
And I didn’t say anything else so then he turns and he goes and he opens this first 
door and the door slams behind me. He opens the second door and the door slams behind 
me. We go up these stairs and the door slams behind me. We go in and I finally see 
Curtis and Hollis and them, and they are like this. And he opens up the cell, the jailer 
opens up the cell and he lets me in, right? [Laughter] [30:00] And so I talk to them and 
get all the information and cool them down and they wondering what the hell I’m in there 
for. And I’m telling them what I’m there—“Just to give you support and let you 
know...” They say, “Well, how your black ass going to get out of here?” [Laughter] So 
when I got finished interviewing them and everything I turned and I said, “Jailer!” And 
he came and said, “What the hell you want?” And I says, “I’m ready to leave.” And he 
opened the door. And of course everybody—each door opened and I walked back out and 
I went back and I made my report that everybody was fine. Called into Julian and 
everything was fine and everybody going to hang where they at, gave them my report, 
and everybody was feeling great. That’s just some of the stuff that I had to do. I was 
mainly responsible for the upkeep of everybody. You know, making sure that the 
vendors were paid and stuff like that. 
EC: Were you able to visit Brenda and the other girls while you were there? 
Did they let you see them? 
RR: No, I didn’t see them. We were giving out where we could. 
EC: Can I go back a little bit? 
RR: Sure. 
EC: What were the Baltimore demonstrations like? How did that catch your 
interest once you got sent to that meeting? 
12 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: On the first part, a lot of these people that I met that was involved in the 
CIG were kids from west Baltimore and of course the white kids were upper class and 
everything else. So I was from east Baltimore so was kind of strike one. I had to do a 
little proving of who I was and kind of make ground and make room for myself. When I 
met certain people, certain things opened up for me. The demonstrations in Baltimore 
were really hilarious. I more or less became in charge of like coordinating the activities 
at some point. At the height of things, when we made the local restaurant association 
come into conversation, for about a two-week period we had three Renaults that we 
would pile anywhere from seven to eight people in each Renault and at lunchtime go to 
the biggest restaurants in Baltimore. And before being arrested of course they had to read 
you the Miranda Act so they would come, the police—we would go and shut down a 
restaurant, the police would walk in and read the Miranda and then if you walk out then 
you weren’t arrested. So we would go back and get into the Renault and go to another 
restaurant and the police would come. So we had the police department going, we had 
the restaurants ( ) all up. And so finally the restaurateur says, “Let’s talk to these 
crazy people.” 
Of course as some of them was getting arrested they also—and that’s also when 
the NAACP also said that it was—the public accommodations bill was in the courts and it 
wasn’t necessary for all of this activity to be going on. I’m only going to mention this 
person’s name one time. His name is Mr. Little Willy Adams. He came to our rescue in 
terms of helping us with bond because his man, the Dixon bond bailsman, was under his 
purview, and he came out. His wife also went to the house legislature. So he was a very 
political person and he was the one that continued [35:00] to support the students and the 
13 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
activities. The sit-ins around Baltimore were not—nobody really got tossed around or 
really done in like they did in—I mean you got called names and stuff like that. I can’t 
recall anybody really getting hurt or really being rough. When we got to South Baltimore 
it got a little ugly and we got into Little Italy we got a little scared, but basically 
Baltimore was not like going into a lunch counter in McComb or going to a lunch counter 
in Atlanta. When we went into the Peachtree Manor where there were ( ) and they 
threw us out. It’s about the same. 
But Baltimore was—Baltimore for me at that point was my stepping ground and 
how I was going to make it my way and I met and was supported by some very good 
people, when the voter registration activity kind of started the reason I got into a position 
of treasurer, which became a small stipend kind of position, was because of a Mr. Brailey, 
Troy Brailey, who was the union representative, AFL-CIO union representative, who it 
just so happens knew my father, just so happens was on this advisory committee to the 
students. But he was one of those people that came around and saw the little floundering 
somebody back there and he took me under his wing and showed me some few things. 
And then I wound up being okay. There was Mrs. Elizabeth Oliver who was a writer for 
the Afro-American newspaper and she was also part of the Afro-American newspaper 
family and her daughter Marsha were also a big influence in my getting ahead in things. 
Because they would introduce me to certain people or they would take me to certain 
parties. 
So once I got involved and into SNCC things began to come around me and come 
to me that I took advantage of. and it all was a deal with the demonstrations because I 
became a worker for the situation and so when the guys called for who was ready to give 
14 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
up school and go and do this number, this larger number, that we were talking about 
doing, I had no fear about signing on because it felt like I was doing the same thing I was 
doing in Baltimore. Not thinking the fear or the repercussions or whatever. I mean the 
same repercussions in Baltimore. I could have been killed, could have been locked up, 
could have been anything else. So Baltimore was a beginning. 
EC: How did your family feel about the movement? 
RR: My dad was proud. My mom—[Laughter], Another person I’ll mention 
that helped me a lot was a guy named Larry Steele. He used to be a stringer for Jet 
magazine and Ebony. Larry and I became very, very good friends. And one of the things 
that I had to promise my father when I signed onto this was that—of course he was big. 
He says, “Don’t worry about me, but call your mom every other week and stuff like that.” 
So this relationship with Larry became—Larry, on his runs coming through Baltimore and 
stuff, I would see Larry more than I would talk to my mom. So Larry would stop by and 
talk to my mom and soothe her that everything was okay and he had just talked to me and 
where I was and [40:00] what I was doing. So my moms was as cool as moms could be. 
I guess my sister was proud of me. I don’t know what my brother really thought of me 
because I don’t think he really understood what I was doing or where I was going or the 
chances I was taking, but what I said to him as I left was that if I survive where Fm going 
Fm going to be all right the rest of my life. And I ( ) look at you today and Fm 
pretty wealthy. 
EC: So you had that foresight about what SNCC was going to be and that 
experience? 
15 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: No. I didn’t have the foresight at that time, but I could fit it into what I 
had already done in Baltimore for about a year and the kinds of games and kinds of stuff 
I’ve seen people do and manipulations and activities. So when this opportunity came 
along I said what the heck, what’s the worst can happen? I can make it or not. so once 
we got into the stuff in McComb and the kids—of course all the other activities that went 
on, and things and then when the kids walked out of school that particular day was the 
worst day ever for us because it really brought to mind that they were really down to get 
us. One of the things, they had a warrant out, a real warrant out, for Diane at that 
particular moment. So the night before that everybody was in town, all sixteen of us was 
in town. Bob Zellner had not gotten into McComb just yet. He was still in Atlanta 
begging to come in and we in McComb begging him not to come. [Laughter] Because 
we’re singing and praying because we know what we’re getting ready to face. 
So finally that night he came on in. So that next day we’re all up in the office. 
Faintly we hear in the background this sound and it’s getting louder and louder and then 
we know what it is. So being who we are, we’ve always been prepared for demonstration 
stuff, so we broke out the signs and everything and came down and made assignments 
and stuff and came down on the street and met the kids and marched with them into town. 
Of course everybody took their positions. My position that time was to observe. I could 
get close enough to see what was going on and then report to Julian, to get to a telephone. 
And in those days to get a telephone you had to go through an operator to get out, 
otherwise—so I put the call in before the march started and Julian was holding. I think 
Charlie Jones was down at Dr. Anderson’s house because Dr. Anderson, having the only 
16 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
doctor’s phone, could go straight out. We left Diane in the Masonic temple because we 
didn’t want her to get caught. Everybody else took up positions and went downtown. 
Well, by that time you know all hell broke loose. They jumped on Bob and they 
got everybody. And then things kind of moved—. 
EC: It was Bob Zellner they jumped? 
RR: Jumped on Bob Zellner. Then I think Moses covered him and I think 
McDew covered him and a couple of us covered to keep them from killing that boy. And 
then they pulled them off and they worked him some more. But anyway we finally got 
everybody out and back to Wall Street. But now in the meantime while everything is 
going on I’m upstairs in the Masonic temple looking down. The police come by and pick 
up Sharrod and Cordel. In the meantime [45:00] I see the big sergeant walking up the 
stairs to the Masonic temple. Inside the Masonic temple is a guy from Detroit by the 
name of A.G. Gaston and Diane. So I look at this back door. All of this stuff is coming 
to me as this sergeant, this big—I forget his name, but he’s a big one and he was coming 
up the steps. And I looked at this black cloth at the back of the Masonic temple. I don’t 
know nothing about the Masons, but somehow or another I thought that if we got through 
that black space we would be safe. So I told Diane and Gaston to come with me. We got 
through the black space and opened the door and where we were? On the roof. 
But this cop walked all around the Masonic temple, all around, and went back out. 
I told Gaston, I said, “Y’all be cool.” Gaston couldn’t wait, he got excited, and he 
jumped off the roof and they caught him out on the highway. I got Diane back inside, we 
worked our way onto Wall Street, and as I said everybody got together. Then the 
decision was made that this was a little too hot for us so we could make decisions, so we 
17 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
decided to go back to Atlanta. That’s when we found out the next day the message on the 
Wall Street SNCC house, “SNCC done snuck.” [Laughter] 
EC : You know who done that? 
RR: No, we never did. But we went back to Atlanta and gathered at [BB 
Beeman’s?] and made the decisions as to what we were going to do. Bob, I think it was 
Bob Moses and Chuck McDew was going back into Mississippi. Charlie Jones and 
Sharrod and Cordel was going down to southwest Georgia. I was sent up to coordinate 
on Route 40 with CORE and then the assignments were made. While Em working 
helping coordinate Route 40 with SNCC and CORE I get this call from Ruby Doris that 
says, “Get over to the CORE office, we’ve got four or five people of ours that just got 
into the CORE office saying that they’re going somewhere to demonstrate and they ain’t 
never demonstrated in their life” and blah, blah, blah, “Go find out what’s going on.” 
I go over to the CORE office. There’s all these people from New York. There’s 
Faith ( ), there’s—I’m probably not going to get it—Barney [Killstein?], and there’s 
Peggy Dammond, there’s Angie Butler who was doing—by Bill Hansen who had just 
demonstrated in Annapolis. He didn’t come out of New York. And then there was a 
couple of local Baltimore folk. Their intentions was to go to Crestview, Maryland, sit in 
at the then-governor Tawes’s restaurant in Crestview, Maryland. Now, this is at 
Christmastime [19]61. And they knew they were going to get put out so they had a 
theme of there was no room at the inn. [Laughter] So I’m trying to tell them, “are you 
all ready for this, you know, what can happen? You haven’t had any training.” The only 
one in the group that had any was Angela Butler because she was a part of the Nashville 
group. She had been there living in New York. 
18 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
Well, we get them on buses and we go down there. We go into Crestview and we 
go into Governor Tawes’s place. They read the Miranda Act, but they decide that 
[Laughter] they ain’t going to treat us like they do in Baltimore. After they read the 
Miranda Act they locked our asses up. [Laughter] 
EC: No warning? 
RR: No warning. And this is the first and only time in the six years that I was 
with SNCC that I got locked up. 
EC: Really? 
RR: That’s the only time [50:00] that I ever got locked up. 
EC: You almost rival Julian then. 
RR: Yeah. So then they take us to Princess Anne, Maryland, and then of 
course overnight and everything, and then Juanita Mitchell—again, the Mitchell family 
becomes our attorneys. In the meantime we meet Freddie St. Clair and Walter Black. 
Walter Black from eastern Maryland and Freddie St. Clair from Cambridge, Maryland. 
They are the bond bailsmen. We decide again to stay in the amount of time to get the PR 
and everything. I got out to do PR and went to New York and everywhere and started 
doing things and raising money and the rest of the stuff that we did when somebody was 
in, getting bail and everything, lawyers and all of that kind of stuff. In the meantime I’m 
knowing Freddie St. Clair. So we get everybody out and we all go to New York for 
Christmas, but there’s discussion about what are we going to do about Cambridge or 
what are we going to do about the eastern shore, not necessarily Cambridge. But we had 
now this invitation from Freddie St. Clair to come into Cambridge and that they would 
support us. So we discussed this in New York over the holidays and of course we’re in 
19 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
touch with Atlanta and it’s decided that we would go into Cambridge and take a look-see. 
So that’s when they asked Bill Hansen to become a secretary and he went back to 
Cambridge with me. 
Well, at first the Civic Interest Group, NAG out of Washington, all of the—let’s 
put it this way, all of the SNCC affiliates that was in the area was asked to mobilize and 
come in on weekends. We used to have just weekend demonstrations in Cambridge. We 
continued to do that until the community started doing—getting involved in the 
demonstrations. Then it became, as Cambridge began to grow it became a spot and 
everybody wanted the spot. But again, our rule was we build, we grow, we leave. 
Cambridge had a very strong organization. Freddie gave up the organization early on 
because not only—Freddie was in business. His dad was a funeral director so he was in 
business so the business became much more important than being chairman of a civic 
organization where you’ve got to be going to meetings and running around. So then his 
cousin, Gloria Richardson, steps in. And the St. Clairs has got an old history of 
Cambridge where the great-great-granddaddy was the first city councilman or owned 
slaves there, I don’t know, something like that. But they go way, way, way back. So 
when Gloria took over it was another kind of scene. So we had somebody to also do 
something about business and something about organization and stuff. So we built some 
other people around her that the local organization became organized enough to deal and 
negotiate with the National Guard and Kennedy and everything else. So I began to say, 
“Ruby, I think we need to back off.” 
Well, before we could do that the white establishment said that they were going 
to hold a referendum on public accommodations. Gloria said that no black folks was 
20 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
going to vote for the referendum. I said, “You can’t do that.” She said, [55:00] “This is 
Cambridge, I can do anything I want to do.” I says, “No, you can’t because you’re an 
affiliate of SNCC, we’ve got people dying in the South for voter registration, we’ve got 
people getting locked up. How does it look, an affiliate up here advocating no vote when 
all of this activity is going on?” She says, “I run this one.” I says, “No, you may think 
you run it.” So of course I went back to the board. 
EC: When you say back to the board—? 
RR: I went to the board that we had built in Cambridge and explained what I 
was saying and they said, “Of course we’ve got to vote.” 
EC: What was her position? Can you explain it for people who don’t know? 
RR: What was her position, what? 
EC: On why they shouldn’t vote. 
RR: Because there was enough white people to vote for the referendum in 
order for black folks not to have to vote for it to pass. So black folks wasn’t necessary, 
for black folks to participate in order for it to become law. Which may or may not have 
been—there’s more registered white folks that that could have happened, but the point of 
it was we could not stay out of a vote no matter what the outcome would be. Whether 
they’d whup us or not we couldn’t stay out of the vote. So of course that became a bone 
of contention. Then it was sort of—at that point we were getting ready to have a 
conference in Atlanta and Ruby asked me to stop at all of the black campuses, told Bill 
Hansen and I to stop at all of the black campuses. Black and white campuses, coming 
down to talk up the conference coming up. Now, I worked with Bill Hansen in 
Cambridge, Maryland. 
21 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC : And Hansen’s white. 
RR: And Hansen’s white. I’ve always felt that Hansen was hiding from his 
own community because if he was daring enough to do the shit that he did in our 
community then I’m quite sure he could have convinced some white folks to come on 
and understand what was going on. He had a very arrogant kind of attitude about the way 
he would express himself. Like when we were in New York he hadn’t even really 
become a secretary yet, but Angela Butler at that time had become a star almost. She was 
on Jack Carson and she had already [been?] in the Juilliard School of Music so she was 
on her way so they knew people. Peggy was into drama and stuff. These kids were 
going places so they knew people. When we got to New York we were at a party with 
people like Godfrey Cambridge and Barbara Attea and even there was Sal Mineo there, 
but at this party somebody came to me and said, “Hey, man, you’ve got to get your man 
in check. He just caused Sal Mineo to leave.” I says, “What are you talking about?” The 
way that he came on to him about what’s going on and saying that you’ve got all—I mean 
it was just so rough till he just made the man feel bad and just left. 
When we left New York going back to Cambridge there was no reason—we’re 
going out at night going into being picked up in Cambridge at night. There was no 
reason for Bill Hansen to announce, or as we’re getting on the bus going out of New 
York, where we’re going and what we’re going to do. When we got to Cambridge on 
these weekend things, when we would go to the Choptank Inn the reporters would always 
come to me saying, “Hey, Reg, you going to Choptank Inn with Bill Hansen?” I’d say, 
“Hell, no.” He says, “Why not?” I said, “Even if the Choptank Inn opened tomorrow I 
wouldn’t go in there and get nothing. Not even a carryout. But if that’s what he thinks 
22 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
he needs to do then that’s what he need to do.” And he would go in and [1:00:00] he 
would get hit upside the head with iron chairs and bottles get thrown through the 
windows and then each week he would go back and I would tell him, “That ain’t 
necessary to do. You don’t have to do that.” So we would have these kind of things. So 
when we got to Virginia Union, Reggie Green, who’s now a minister in Washington, DC, 
said to me, says, “Baby, if you go on to too many more of our schools you’re going to 
lose out.” I said, “What are you talking about?” And then he started talking about how 
Bill was. And I had been complaining to Ruby. So Ruby says, “Okay, here’s what we’ll 
do, we’ll split you up. He’ll go to the white campuses, you go to the black campuses.” So 
we split up. So I then went on to Livingston College and other colleges to talk up the 
conference. 
I went from Atlanta to Selma. I think the guy’s name was Johnson or something like that. 
Anyway he was a young minister, he was a young divinity student. He smuggled me on 
campus and I stayed on campus for maybe about two weeks before they found me. I 
moved around the city and did a report. I’m sorry we can’t find it. 
EC: We’ll find it some time, I know we will. 
RR: And I did all of the topographical stuff about the Air Force being there, the 
economy, and met—and what was important was I met twelve ministers and we called 
them the Twelve High. I also met Mrs. Boynton while I was there. So I made my report 
and then I went on to the other colleges and then after our conference in making new 
assignment it was decided that Bernard Lafayette would go to Selma because of these 
twelve ministers. Because him being a young minister, he would relate better to what 
23 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
we’ve established as the leadership. So him and [Colya?] I think went on in there and 
that’s when the other activities began to happen. 
EC: I had no idea there was a ministerial connection, but that makes a lot of 
sense. 
RR: Yeah, that’s how it happened. We used to meet at a joint called the 
Chicken Shack. 
EC: In Selma? 
RR: In Selma and then I’d sneak back on campus. [Laughter] 
EC: Let me go back and ask you a couple of things. So in McComb you 
referenced Bob Zellner and you all not wanting him to come and him wanting to come 
and then he got jumped. Not everybody is going to have that picture of Bob Zellner. Can 
you explain what the issue was with him for people who don’t know? 
RR: We weren’t too sure what was going down, but we knew from other 
experiences that if we had a white boy up on the smudge it was going to be a lot rougher 
than what it was going to be. So we were trying to keep the roughness down, but Bob 
was insisting of course his position as being a part of us and he wanted to be there. And 
we don’t quite want our asses kicked this bad this time. And that was the same kind of 
thing that I go back with Bill Hansen. I mean but Bob Zellner was far different than Bill 
Hansen. I mean Bob was a person that was very interested in talking and moving with 
his community. He was not trying to hide. And his credentials was much different than 
Bill Hansen’s. He was not trying to hide. But the only thing was at that point in time we 
just felt as though it would have been a lot easier on the situation if he did not come. But 
24 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
now, by his being there really pushed the envelope because it aggravated the policemen 
and they saw this white boy up in there and they just couldn’t [1:05:00] help themselves. 
EC: I’ve heard him say they were like pulling his eyes out. 
RR: Oh, yeah, they wanted to kill him. They wanted to do him in. So that was 
the only thing, we were just trying to keep it from being as rough as it was. 
EC: How did you all deal with the fact—I mean you all are young people and 
you go into McComb and then what is it, within like a month Mr. Lee was murdered by 
the legislator? How did you all cope with that? 
RR: When we first heard about it that was our first experience with realities of 
stuff that we had done. Our first reaction was to run, but then we had a long conversation 
with Amzie Moore and Amzie Moore pointed out that one of the things that we had to do 
was to show that, again, that we were not afraid and that we were in support of what 
we’re talking about doing. It’s the same thing of going down and seeing the kids in jail. 
So Amzie suggested that the funeral become a mass meeting and that we do the mass 
meeting. If I remember right, Bob and McDew were on the platforms talking, Sharrod 
and Jones were just milling in the crowd, and I had the assignment of taking a picture of 
Mr. Fred Allen who I didn’t know but Doc Anderson knew. And I had to walk with Doc 
Anderson until he spotted Allen and then as I pointed the camera to Mr. Allen, Mr. Allen 
almost took my head off, but we got this picture. But later on of course Mr. Allen was 
killed. But our position, our first position, was of course to run because we were looking 
at death ourselves. But then Amzie convinced us that we had to stay. And that was the 
same kind of position we did—I guess when we got together and went back to Atlanta it 
25 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
was so devastating and we were so strung apart we couldn’t put ourselves together there 
in McComb. We had to get stretched out. 
And that’s when Big Jim came into play. That’s when we really started 
organizing and SNCC became a little more organized. I mean we had somebody to 
answer to. I mean Ruby was a commando and you could call Ruby and you could get the 
right connections about doing things. You weren’t afraid of being—I traveled a lot on my 
own. I wasn’t afraid of not ever being connected with my home base. I was never afraid 
of being caught out there and not being covered. But then when Big Jim came in things 
started to organize a little better and then you saw yourself moving in a different kind of 
direction. And then I began to be used in different kinds of ways. 
EC: When Ruby’s playing that role she’s actually still a student, right? At 
Spelman? 
RR: Just about. And she’s sitting on a WATS line and she’s giving directions 
and moving us around and stuff, yeah. 
EC: And Big Jim, you’re talking about Jim Forman? 
RR: Jim Forman of course. For people who don’t know can you talk about 
Amzie Moore and who he was and his role? 
RR: Amzie Moore was an old post office person. First of all he was in the 
military and he was a soldier and he came home. Of course all of the stuff that he met in 
Mississippi he couldn’t deal with. He was a postal worker and he still wasn’t getting 
satisfaction. He became involved with the NAACP. He was just a person that continued 
to try and find his freedom where he lived. And he was [1:10:00] a person who was 
unafraid of the possibilities of his actions. He just went on and did what he thought was 
26 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
necessary to be done. And what he did was he hooked up with other people of the same 
like and began to organize and do things. So when the idea of—when him and Bob talked 
and the idea of us coming in and doing things, they thought about Baltimore County 
might have been a little rougher to get started in than a place like McComb where there 
was other possibilities and other resources. Because all of these guys, Amzie Moore and 
CC Bryant and old Supercool Daddy, all of these men within the state knew each other. 
Aaron Henry and all of these people. So we weren’t walking into anything new. We 
were walking into something that was already built. It just needed a little, I guess, 
workers. 
And so when Bob went in and then they decided that the plan was to go to 
McComb, even after that Amzie continued to be an advisor of how to go about doing 
things and where to go and what to do and what to say and just gave us the skinny on 
Mississippi and how to conduct yourself and how to protect yourself. And he was a tall 
man. 
EC : I know that you mentioned you were the first person to j oin Bob Moses in 
McComb. Am I remembering right, did the house you all were staying at or that you 
were staying at one point get bombed? 
RR: Later on after we left. 
EC: That was later on? 
RR: I think it was after we left. 
EC: Can you tell us about it? 
RR: No, because I was gone. 
EC : You were gone? 
27 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: I was gone then. 
EC: All right, I’ll have to figure that one out. You’ve already described that 
you were involved in the sit-ins in Baltimore and also voter registration and you 
mentioned SNCC was debating the two of them in that summer of [19]61. Can you talk 
about what that debate was about and what you thought? 
RR: At the time I wasn’t too sure as to what the debate was all about because 
as I looked at direct action we were going into lunch counters and the other places, going 
into stores, trying on clothes, and being more direct about what we’re seeing is not 
happening. Well, in the same sense that if you’re dealing with voter registration and you 
attempt to register to vote they’re going to hit you in the head so I don’t know how more 
direct does that get. So I didn’t really see the difference in whether I was operating on 
voter registration or operating on direct action. When I had left McComb and started 
dealing with Cambridge, Cambridge was more dealing with accommodations and direct 
action, but it was a lot more intense than what I was doing in Mississippi because I didn’t 
have to put up with the National Guard in Mississippi. That was somebody else that had 
to deal with that in Mississippi. But in confronting Bobby Kennedy in Mississippi was 
the same as confronting Bobby Kennedy in McComb and Cambridge, Maryland, where 
in Cambridge, Maryland, after a meeting he says—he was handing out, there was little PT 
line boats that his brother used to run, there were tie clips, so he said to me, he says, “I 
would give you one but you don’t wear a tie.” I says, “You white folks been hanging me 
long enough, I ain’t going to wear no tie for you to get me.” [Laughter] And he turned 
red of course. 
28 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
But you know, he says, “I remember John Doar talking about you from 
Mississippi.” Well, that’s all right, who I am, [1:15:00] we meet again. This time we 
met in person when it was in Cambridge, but he had heard about me in McComb through 
John Doar. Well, one night in Mississippi, Bob had taken this guy down to register to 
vote and then he didn’t register, but we needed an affidavit. So we had to go out to his 
house to get the affidavit. There was Bob Moses, John Doar, Marion Barry, and me, and 
George Heads. We went out to this guy’s house in this open field and George says of 
course, “Y’all wait till I give the word that I got him, that he comes out.” Because the old 
man was sitting there with his shotgun so then when he realized who we were he cut the 
light on. You’ve been in Mississippi? 
EC : I was rai sed in Mi ssi ssippi. 
RR: You when there ain’t nothing around—it’s like one of these up over top of 
you and you sitting and ain’t nothing out there but darkness. We sat there and talked with 
this man for I don’t know how many hours to convince him to give us an affidavit. One 
of the things that the man said to us was, “I’m really afraid because you never know what 
these white folks going to do. You never know where they at. They might be out there 
in the darkness or you go out there to your cow and they turn green and they jump on 
you.” For years Marion and I, every time we would see each other, we would greet each 
other with, “Watch out, the white folks might turn green.” [Laughter] 
But to just demonstrate between Mississippi and Cambridge, I mean I was still 
dealing with the justice department on the one hand and then another story about John 
Doar was when John Hardy, who was the second person that came into Mississippi, came 
in to work with Bob there were some people down in Tylertown and he went to work 
29 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
with the people in Tylertown and he got locked up. Well, they beat John pretty bad and 
when John saw John Doar coming in to the cell block or somewhere he kind of reached 
out for him and John Doar kind of gave the hint about you don’t know me. And then 
later on of course John spoke with him and got whatever necessary—John Hardy was very, 
very hurt that he was snubbed by—but John Doar became a good friend, I mean over the 
years. We did a lot of stuff together. He even showed up in Cambridge again because 
when things got hot there was a guy in the justice department by the name of Hubbard 
that went to school with Pop Herb and Pop Herb St. Clair went to Lincoln and old man 
Hubbard was in the justice department. So John Doar brought Mr. Hubbard in to 
Cambridge to talk to Pop Herb to see if he could get things calmed down and if you 
would have known Pop Herb every second word with Pop Herb was, “You pig fucker.” 
[Laughter] 
EC: So that didn’t go too well. [Laughter] 
RR: So we had relationships with the justice department in different kinds of 
ways. So the work in Mississippi and the work in Maryland didn’t differ but so much. 
But I guess they both had the same dangers as it always had and anywhere that I went— 
when the voter education project came up, the YEP project came up, I had worked a 
couple of other projects before this, but after Mississippi and Alabama and everybody got 
the money there was a little puny piece of money left [1:20:00] for a project in 
Orangeburg, South Carolina. So we had been wanting to get back in Orangeburg to 
check it out and see what’s going on, but the people of Orangeburg, the NAACP and all 
of the adult folks, saying, “We don’t want none of them SNCC people in here.” This is 
before Cleve gets shot and everything else. But they said—and Randy Blackwell, who 
30 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
was working with YEP at the time who was also a professor in the HBC kind of situation, 
he got together, I think, with Dr. Thomas at South Carolina State and then they worked 
out a situation where I would come—where SNCC would come in and it would take the 
voter registration list that they had and the captains that they had in their organization and 
put the captains with the voting people in the list so that on election day this captain 
would know everybody that votes. Before computers. So this captain would know 
everybody in his precinct then these people would be broken down in precinct and these 
are your eligible voters. So they promise that we would come in and do that and do that 
only. [Laughter] 
EC: They really thought they could make that deal? 
RR: And they also wanted the money to come in from VEP. 
EC: Sure they did. 
RR: Because State would get a little piece, NAACP would get a little piece of 
it, but they had to take us in this thing. So I wound up going all over the state before I 
could get this job done. I had to even go down to Charleston, South Carolina to talk to 
the president, Mr. Charlie Brown, and all of the people of the NAACP of Orangeburg and 
the advisory council. I mean it was just a hodgepodge of stuff. So we set up this little 
house and we started going to work, but of course I recruited a couple of students to come 
over and help out. 
EC: Of course you did. 
RR: And in the meantime found out that there was a problem with the cafeteria 
and at the time there was a guy named Pete Bryant who was our representative from 
South Carolina to SNCC. And of course I mean I couldn’t be a SNCC representative in 
31 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
town without conversing with Pete. I was never seen on Claflin campus or State’s 
campus. I could go to State’s campus because I could meet with Dr. Thomas, but I 
couldn’t be seen on Claflin’s campus because there was nobody I was supposed to be 
seeing there. But one day somehow or another the cafeteria just broke out. Somehow or 
another they had a demonstration. I was not even in town. [Laughter] 
EC : You had your alibi. 
RR: I was nowhere in sight, nowhere around. Came back a couple of days 
later, but anyway. Those are just some of the things. And then I hooked up with—they 
sent me in to work with the northern student movement. Dottie Burlage had a project in 
Raleigh out of the northern student movement and they sent me in to kind of support her 
on her situation. 
EC: Did you know Jane Stembridge? 
RR: Jane Stembridge, I knew her for a very short period of time. 
EC: She worked on that project, didn’t she, in Raleigh? 
RR: But she came later. 
EC: You mentioned the National Guard in Cambridge. Can you talk about 
what they were doing in there and how that worked? 
RR: By the time the city, the local folk, took over they had really closed the 
town down and I think the mayor of the city got terribly upset [1:25:00] and he felt as 
though the state police was not doing what it was supposed to be doing. And of course 
being the eastern shore of Maryland and the Tawes and all of the Watermen, the eastern 
shore has a very big influence on the state of Maryland. So then it was decided that I 
guess it was getting completely out of hand, that they would send in the National Guard 
32 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
to squall this situation. They sent down a general by the name of George Gelston and 
George became—George actually became an ally because we would have meetings, me, 
him, Gloria, Fred [Ricegow?] who was one of our lawyers, we would have meetings in 
Baltimore at Fred Ricegow’s house about strategies of what we were going to do. The 
Guard was in there to squell [.s/c] things and I kept telling George that that was not going 
to do it, that it was only going to make things worse. 
One of the things that happened between George and I is that after we got up 
some kind of relationship he said to me, he says, “You know, you’re a very interesting 
person. I’d like to have you as an officer.” I said, “George, I can’t be no officer. I can’t 
even be in your Army.” He says, “Oh, come on, what you talking about?” He says, 
“What’s your status?” I said, “What do you mean, my, status?” He said, “What’s your 
civil service?” Isayl’m4-F. He said, “You’re 4-F?” I said yep. He says, “How’d you 
get to be 4-F?” I says, “I’m mentally incompetent.” [Laughter] He says, “Come on, you 
know who you’re talking to?” I said, “Fm talking to the adjutant general of the Maryland 
National Guard.” He said, “You know I can check you out.” I said, “Go ahead. That’s 
your prerogative to do that.” He said, “4-F?” So he let it go. So a few meetings later he 
says, “You did that, didn’t you?” I said, “I did what?” He says, “You are really 4-F and 
you’re mentally incompetent.” I said, “I told you. You didn’t believe me?” He says, “If 
you don’t mind could you tell me what happened?” 
I said, “I went down to your Army and there was this sergeant and this sergeant 
put these boards in front of me and he said, ‘These are ink blots, tell me what you see.’ I 
said ink blots. The sergeant said, ‘No, you look in them and these are ink blots, you look 
in them and you see something in them. Tell me what you see.’ I said, ‘I see ink blots.’ 
33 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
So the sergeant says, ‘No, you don’t understand.’ I said, ‘Yes, I do. If I’m going to be in 
your Army and you tell me that they’re ink blots I’m going to believe that they’re ink 
blots.’ Incompetent.” 
EC: Incompetent or hardheaded. [Laughter] 
RR: So George said, “I don’t know how you did it.” I said, “Let’s go past that, 
George.” So we would do things like George would say, “Reg, don’t have a 
demonstration this time.” I said, “George, I got to, we’re pushed against a wall.” He 
says, “If you’ve got to do it let’s go down to this certain point, you kneel and pray and 
then I’ll hold my boys off. You kneel and do your little thing and then you go on back.” 
We did that a couple times, right? And things went well. But one time we did it and 
George was out of town. His next in charge was Colonel Tawes, the nephew of the 
governor. We get to the point where we’re going to stop and pray, Cliff Vaughs , one of 
[1:30:00] our most distinguished people, decided that he’s going to charge these young 
white fixed bayonets eastern shore crackers. They grab him and going to stab him, all 
hell breaks loose, they shoot tear gas, mustard gas that night, all over the town, especially 
the black town, black section of town. All over everywhere. So of course Stokely and 
several other people got arrested that night. I was helping people with the—Danny 
[Lyons?] has a picture of me helping a couple of people who got shot with canisters. 
But anyway I then went and with the doctor and finally got Stokely and 
everybody out of jail and things settled down again. And then we went into negotiations 
again with the National Guard. We negotiated on the basis that there was no blacks in the 
National Guard and there was an offensive kind of attitude towards them. So a few 
weeks after that then this guy named Boxer, I think he was Colonel, he came down as 
34 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
George’s second in command and he was a black guy out of Baltimore. So then they 
integrated the National Guard, so then the National Guard became sent back as an 
observer of the negotiating team and we began to negotiate with the city and with the— 
that’s when Bobby Kennedy started coming in a little more. And so that’s my estimation 
of George. But George played a very vital role in keeping things together because before 
he came in there was going to be a clash between the black and white community. And 
everybody knows that everybody down there is a hunter and nobody was really afraid of 
nobody down there once the word was out and it was very difficult to keep a cap on 
things because at one point in time there was this open field that buttressed the black and 
white community and one night the white folks was trying to come across the field and 
open fire and fire was returned and we didn’t have that no more. One night you could 
hear the car start as it came around Race Street and started at the end and raced up the 
street and you could hear shots going off. And it goes up and you can hear it spin around 
and as it came back you could hear the open fire, but you heard fire returned. You could 
hear that motor going on out of town. So it was becoming very, very dangerous because 
there was nothing in between to stop that from really happening except that the Guard 
was there to hold back the situation which allowed that talking to happen. 
At that time, and also in Cambridge, we made a lot of promises and a slowdown 
on things because, Fm not criticizing Mr. Weaver who was at the HUD department, but a 
lot of promises was made that was going to come into Cambridge. Gloria was made a lot 
of promises of things that was going to happen that I don’t even know whether they’ve 
happened today, but they did give a lot of concession. And the community still is a very 
strong community and that was our purpose was to leave a strong community. 
35 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: I’ve heard people say that Cambridge in many ways was more like the 
organizing in the north after the Voting Rights Act as opposed to like the delta. You 
know, that the issues were more like the ones that happened later. Does that make sense 
to you? That it was more like about jobs and access as opposed to—? 
RR: That’s where it came from, from the beginning. It was sort of like the 
march on Washington was about jobs. I mean jobs were leaving from down there, folks 
had to go as far away as Delaware to work. [1:35:00] There was several factories that 
had closed. The Campbell factory had closed down there and the Watermen were not 
really functioning. And black Watermen weren’t making a lot of money. So the job 
situation was poor. The school situation was terrible. And everything that you could 
probably name would be in the mix. 
EC: You’ve talked about this a little bit, but can you describe what kind of 
person Gloria Richardson was, what kind of leader? 
RR: Gloria was [Pause] I don’t want to say a charismatic leader, but she 
followed orders to a certain degree in the beginning. She had a sense of leadership 
coming from the people that she was—as far as I knew she was listening to what was 
demands coming out of her board. Because she would meet with her board and her board 
would give her directions as to what to go on, but then somewhere in this life I guess she 
took on another kind of thing when she started running with people like Jesse out of New 
York—I can’t think of Jesse’s name now, but the whole ACT group. And she earned her 
name correctly and I think she’s—in recent years she may have gotten a few things out of 
kilter, but I think without her taking over from her cousin and the name of St. Clair being 
36 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
what it was, that’s what made the Cambridge movement what it was. And she deserves 
every bit of accolades and support for her activities for building such an organization. 
EC: You’ve mentioned this a little bit too, but can you say more about what the 
position was of the NAACP in Baltimore and the conflict between the students and the 
NAACP? 
RR: That was very basic because once we had gone and sat in and we had a 
number of cases in court their position was we’ve got this in court, the same as what their 
position has always been. We’ve got this in court now so there’s no need of spending 
any money of you kids going out there doing these things and make us spend money to 
get you out of jail. Our position was we had to push the envelope because you’ve been 
sitting on the court action and if the court action ain’t happening then some kind of 
action’s got to happen to make the court action happen. So we said we’re going to go 
ahead on. So I would imagine that they thought that we were finished and then Mr. 
Adams came along and gave us life again. And then the other supporters came along and 
we began to move again and we were able to do the things we were doing. But as I said, 
in the beginning I didn’t know that what we were doing was building Clarence’s ward to 
run back there then. But that was the first part of the voter registration activity. Then it 
spread out. 
EC: When did he run? 
RR: I forgot. I think it was [19]63, [19]62, or something like that. 
EC: That early? 
RR: That early, yeah. 
EC: Was Norma Collins part of that Baltimore student movement? 
37 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: Yeah. 
EC: Do you know how she went from that to the SNCC office? 
RR: I had a little something to do with it. Of course when the group came back 
to Baltimore [1:40:00] for the meeting--. 
EC: In [19]61? 
RR: That’s when they started meeting everybody and that’s when Norma met 
folks. And Norma began to find her way to do things and then Norma signed on to go to 
Atlanta to work. And before I knew it she was in and rolling. 
EC: I think Julian told me that his early memories are him and Norma and 
Forman and maybe John Hardy and that they could all barely fit at the same time in the 
office. Does that sound right? 
RR: That sounds right. It was a very small office. [Laughter] 
EC: Did she come out of Morgan? 
RR: I don’t know whether Norma came out of Morgan or not. I don’t know 
exactly. All I remember was that she was like secretary to Clarence Logan who we 
called Skip. She was very tight with Clarence. The leaders at that time was Clarence 
Logan and Phil Savage who was heading the voter registration stuff, but then [Lavinne?] 
West was the Morgan president. Just how Norma—I think Norma came with Skip 
because things became organized once we started doing the voter registration. There was 
records to be kept and things to be done so it was necessary for a secretary at that time. 
EC : Did you know August Meier? 
RR: Yes. Yes, I knew Augie Meier. 
38 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: He’s got a bunch of papers over at Schomburg and so if you can read his 
handwriting he’s got all these notes. 
RR: Yes, I was at his funeral. 
EC: Were you? Sounded like he played a role in advising some of the students. 
RR: He was one of the people, I would say, that was a part of the advisory 
group. There was an adult group that was attached to SNCC and Augie being a teacher 
out at Morgan was close to the students. And then there was people like Reverend 
Bascomb and the Reverend Vernon Dobson and Reverend Frank Williams, Juanita 
Mitchell, Katherine Adams. 
EC: And these were all the adults? 
RR: These were all the kind of adult advisors. And when any and everything 
would go down in any major kind of way they would have something to say or some 
advice to give. Wasn’t always taken. Like we would use Bascomb’s church a lot. I had 
to report to Miss Adams as the secretary. She was secretary to the advisory group so all 
my records had to be cleared through her to get more money to do whatever. But Augie 
was just an advisor to the group. He was one of them adult kind of people. 
EC: Were you at the march on Washington? 
RR: Yes, I was. 
EC : What was your role for that? 
RR: Just to show up. 
EC: Just to show up? You didn’t have to coordinate a group or anything? 
RR: No. Didn’t have to do nothing, just find my group and just be with them. 
EC: What do you remember from that day? 
39 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: Singing and eating good food and just having a good time that day. I ain’t 
paid too much to the speaking because I got pissed off because they had already bumped 
us, what we wanted to say. So I wasn’t [1:45:00] too interested in nothing what anybody 
else had to say. 
EC: So what did you think about that whole thing about changing the speech? 
RR: I thought it was like it is today, the powers win. If you want to be in the 
game you’ve got to play by their rules. 
EC: Play the game. So did you have anything to do with recruiting Judy 
Richardson into SNCC? 
RR: [Laughter] No, I didn’t recruit Judy. Little sis just kind of emerged. She 
was one of them people that came down as one of the first busloads of students that came 
down to demonstrate on weekends. And somehow or another she kind of stuck. And 
then I looked around one day at who I had on my right side and on my left side and she 
was just doing things and we were just moving along and things were happening and she 
was useful. And then the next thing I knew we were heading on out and I was headed to 
Atlanta and she was headed right with me. and then I think we went to Bill Hansen’s 
wedding and from there we went to Atlanta and that’s when she ran into the big folks and 
there she stayed and there she’s been ever since. 
EC: She said Forman wasn’t going to let her leave to go back. 
RR: Not when she could type like she did. [Laughter] Because they were 
looking for people to sit on that WATS line when them reports came through, somebody 
that could take it all down. I can’t really say that I’m responsible for little sis. She just 
happened to come along and latch on and we just went on through. 
40 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: Did a lot of people do that? 
RR: What, latch onto me? 
EC: Yeah. 
RR: Nah, I can’t think of any. Well, maybe a few. But she was one that we 
just kind of bonded and went on. McDew and I are very, very close and Bob Vance and I 
were very close, Karen Spellman and I were very close. 
EC: When did Karen come in to the movement? 
RR: She was with NAG. 
EC: NAG brought a lot of people. 
RR: At that point in time it was NAG and then there was Nashville. They had 
several hubs. There was Atlanta and there was a lot of competition between these folk 
too. 
EC : Can you talk about that? 
RR: Well, I mean—[Laughter], There was the leadership and who was going to 
be and who was not going to be, who was going to follow true nonviolence, who was 
nonviolent and who wasn’t nonviolent. You take a fellow like McDew who comes from 
Massillon, Ohio, you can’t really convert him into nonviolence. You might get him to 
understand a position. A Bernard Lafayette with his kind of divinity kind of feeling 
could, I guess, absolve what Jim Lawson was saying in such a different manner even 
though McDew had known also Jim Lawson as well. 
EC: And think about them both coming from Massillon. 
41 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: That’s right, but McDew as a person is a totally different character than 
Bernard Lafayette, but they both could come together under the nonviolent banner and 
move situations and make things happen. 
EC: You didn’t go to the meeting in October [19]60 in Atlanta, the SNCC, sort 
of the second big meeting? That would have been—was that before you had that 
leadership role in Baltimore? 
RR: I didn’t get there until, I didn’t get involved until [19]61. 
EC: Do you have a sense of why McDew kept getting reelected as chair? 
What it was that people wanted about him? 
RR: As far as I knew [1:50:00] he had the kind of [Laughter] he had the kind of 
command of loyalties. I mean when him and I really got to know each other we had 
certain things in common. So I took him on as my chairman. With me it was the kind of 
attitude, this is the chairman, he says what goes on. The same thing happened when Jim 
became the executive director. Whatever the boss say do, you got to go and do this. But 
with McDew and I, we became more or less close brothers. [Pause] I really don’t know 
where to go with this one. 
EC: You know, partly I was interested just because—I’ve heard about the 
competition and some people saying that the SNCC office was in Atlanta because 
Nashville got the first chair and then questions about whether Diane Nash should have 
been chair or Marion Barry. And McDew says that he became chair in part because Ella 
Baker picked him out because he wasn’t lobbying for it and that that was a factor. 
RR: That’s kind of what it was. He didn’t want it. And there was too much 
competition between the schools being the schools that they are and they became a school 
42 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
competition and that’s what Ella saw was this competition between them and nothing was 
going to happen of what she was talking about us going out and doing. But Dew was 
kind of outside of that and he was not a part of them so he could bring them together. So 
I guess—well, that’s always been his explanation about it and he’s also kind of been 
outside of them. I mean he kind of says until I came along I was the only other outsider 
because I didn’t come from any of the traditional pieces so he could use me. We became 
allies about things and doing things. So yeah, I mean they had heavy competition going 
on, heavy. 
EC: So it’s interesting because I’m trying to think, out of the first group, the 
first sixteen, were you and Chuck the only two that weren’t deep south? 
RR: Chuck was deep south. Chuck was South Carolina. 
EC : I was just thinking about where he grew up. 
RR: Oh, where he grew up, I see. [Pause] I can’t think of who was—Paul 
Brooks was out of Chicago and I think his wife Gwen was out of Chicago or somewhere. 
Diane was out of Chicago. 
EC: That’s right. What was Paul Brooks like? 
RR: A very straitlaced kind of person. Very matter of fact and academia, you 
know, one of them kind of straight guys. [Break in recording] 
EC: What was Diane Nash like when you met her? 
RR: If you can imagine my walking into a hotel conference room for the first 
time and I don’t know who they are except for their quick faces, but I’ve seen them in the 
Student Voice and there’s my seat and my seat is right across from Diane. And I’m 
looking her right straight in the face with my patch over my eye [1:55:00] and I’ve never 
43 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
seen such a beautiful woman and Fm paying more attention to—I ain’t paying attention to 
nobody else around me. And later on after I meet Connie Curry, Connie taps me on the 
shoulder and says, “That’s a very interesting doodle you have going on there.” I said, 
“What do you mean?” She says, “I saw you doodling you and Diane with your little 
heart.” And I hadn’t realized I was sitting there doodling Diane and a heart and 
everything. She’s just a gorgeous woman. So then as I began to meet people and 
understand what their role was in different kinds of ways I began to formulate what I 
wanted to do before Ella came on over because I didn’t know how I was going to 
accomplish what I was going to accomplish. And then of course when Ella kind of took 
me and then it became a little more open. 
I began to talk with Diane and became friends and everything. It was very 
interesting when the kids got out of school and there was the big warrant out on her. my 
responsibility, not only of observing what was going on, was to protect Diane and make 
sure that she didn’t get picked up. And then over the years we’ve been good friends. But 
yes, Diane was—ooh, lord, one of the prettiest women I’ve ever seen. 
EC: What did you think of the position she took the next summer when she 
was pregnant and said that she would go to jail in Mississippi? You remember that? 
RR: Oh, yeah. I just thought Diane was just a brave woman. Youjustgoand 
do anything necessary to be done. I mean this is a remarkable woman. She also 
reminded me of another woman that I met in South Carolina by the name of Grace 
Brooks who was a teacher at South Carolina State and was also this same kind of very 
beautiful—and Grace finally left South Carolina State and joined the Free Southern 
Theater and acted in that. And that was the way that she wanted to give to whatever she 
44 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
could do. And then there was the people that came around—I had it on the tip of my 
tongue. Anyway she’ll come back to me. She married Bill Withers. She became very— 
anyway we had some very beautiful women in the movement and I’ve tried to always 
support them in whatever it is that they want to do. I mean I of course didn’t want to see 
Diane go in like that and I never wanted to see her get hurt or any of the sisters to get hurt, 
but if one of the sisters wanted to make a decision about doing something I was there to 
back them up. 
Because one of the things that that I really learned in the movement, there were 
some very, very beautiful, strong sisters. And beautiful, I mean not only in the facial 
features of Diane, but in all of the other ways that beauty can be stored. I mean Judy is a 
wonderful person. Bobbie Yancy, when we first learned how to raise money we were put 
before a group that made us cry about how you had to do this kind of stuff, but she still 
did it. Shirley Wright Cooks, who came down and was working in the movement. And 
of course there was nobody like Ruby Doris, nobody like Big Mama. And then there was 
Jessie Johnson who took care of us with the money and stuff and made sure we were 
okay. There was Connie Curry and [2:00:00] Casey Hayden and all of these people 
were—Casey we also thought was like a movie star. Casey was a beautiful gal. 
EC: She seems like she must have been one of those really charismatic people? 
RR: Oh, yeah. And so the women that came along, the Jean Willis Smiths and 
the Brenda Travises and Mrs. Cotton who we were talking about, nobody really knew but 
lived in a whorehouse. 
EC: You say you didn’t know? 
45 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: At the time we didn’t know it was in a whorehouse, but we were just 
anxious—we were glad to have some place to stay and nobody else was ready to take us 
in. Until we got to moving around and meeting people. But that was okay. [Laughter] 
EC: She took good care of you? 
RR: Took good care of us. And a lot of places, like in Cambridge it wasn’t 
until, I’m going to say the underworld came in to understanding what was happening in 
Cambridge did the local community really—it was the guys that they always been putting 
in jail that started going on demonstrations. There was the guys that hung in the pool 
room that started to come in out of the pool room. So they made the change and then the 
respectable folks got together and said, “Yeah, we’ll make this board because we’ve got 
to keep things going” and then things began to operate around. But it was the underworld. 
EC: Why do you think they came out first? 
RR: Because they were unafraid. They were more unafraid than the rest of 
these folks. What did they have to lose? They thought they were gaining. 
EC: Do you think they’re happy with how it came out? 
RR: I can’t say that because I haven’t been in Cambridge in quite some time 
and understand there’s a few statues around, but I don’t know how well people are eating, 
I don’t know what the housing situation is, I don’t know whether we own any businesses. 
I don’t think Pine Street is up again. I mean there used to be several businesses, black 
businesses, on Pine Street. I don’t know that there’s any businesses. I don’t know what’s 
going on so I can’t say that people are happy. I know the people in Mississippi ain’t 
happy. I mean they’ve got more black elected officials in Mississippi than any state in 
the country and it’s still the poorest state in the country. Black folks don’t own any 
46 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
production companies. I understand Nissan just went back into Canton. It seems like to 
me with the types of money that’s been reported in the black community, it seems like we 
can get some kind of institution, financial institution, on a corner and start building 
maybe a laundromat or general store. Everybody ain’t got to go out to Walmart. I mean 
everybody can’t get to Walmart. I mean just go back to the old general store. Have a 
filling station on the corner, have a restaurant where folks can come in off the road or in 
town, and have some kind of institution, financial institution, that sits there on that comer, 
regulates the business, makes sure that money moves around in that community, and then 
moves out. I don’t understand all the stock exchange and everything, but I know that 
when you got money moving around this way and you’ve got money moving over here 
and coming back to you, that you can then go out, you can sit at the big poker game and 
afford to play. You can’t sit at the poker game if the stakes is a thousand dollars and you 
ain’t got but twenty-five cent. You ain’t going too goddamn far. 
EC: Not far at all. 
RR: So I would like to see some of our black businessmen take [2:05:00] the 
chance of putting some money together, taking one of these small towns, putting a 
financial institution on the corner, I don’t care what you call it, but that financial 
institution will allow you to open a Laundromat. Everybody got to wash their drawers. 
Then I understand that these tools that are used to make computers are done in such a fine 
fashion that you don’t need a PhD to put the circuits together. You just need a little 
training and you can do a decent job. This kind of financial institution could bring in a 
company in a place like Greenwood, Mississippi. Put up a factory, put up a restaurant, 
put up a Laundromat, and let that money spread around in that community. Before you 
47 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
know it you start building houses. I ain’t got no money. If I had some money I’d do it. I 
ain’t had no money since they paid me [964?][1964?]. 
EC: SNCC’s salary? 
RR: SNCC’s salary. I ain’t had no money since then and still ain’t got none, 
but I’m very rich. But that’s what I would like to see coming out of this. Because we 
done all we could with voter registration. We got people hopped up on voter registration 
and from what I can see, and it might sound a little awkward, but the vote has taken us a 
little way but we’ve got to get out there and we’ve got to find some way to do it 
economically. And then we can control who’s in the Congress and we can control who’s 
in the Senate. We can back the boys in there and we can then say, “You don’t go back no 
more if you don’t do so and so.” We can’t do that because we don’t pay for them. 
EC: I know you worked in, was it, Buttermilk Bottom in Atlanta? 
RR: Eh, I was there for a little while. 
EC: Were you involved at all in Julian’s campaign? 
RR: No. I was involved in John’s first campaign. 
EC: When he ran against Julian? 
RR: Yeah. 
EC: In the [19]80s? 
RR: Yeah. 
EC: When he got elected. 
RR: No, that was—he ran two times, didn’t he? 
EC: I’m not sure. 
48 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: He wasn’t running against Julian when we went down. I think we went 
the first time and he wasn’t running against Julian at that time because Marion and all of 
us got a motorcade together and went to help him out. 
EC: I’m not sure of the details of some of that. 
RR: Because we wouldn’t have went if he was against Julian. So it was 
probably the first time. 
EC: Part of the reason I asked is, I’m jumping ahead a little bit, but sort of as 
people left SNCC they did a lot of different kinds of work that in many ways seemed like 
a continuation. So just Judy as an example got involved with Drum and Spear Bookstore. 
And some of the people were working in Lowndes on elections. Like when Bob Vance 
moved to Lowndes, do you know? He was in that first group that went in and started 
organizing, wasn’t he? 
RR: He was. 
EC: So what did you do as you came out of SNCC? 
RR: Let’s see. I left SNCC in [19]65, December [19]65. McDew was here in 
DC and he was director of United Planning Organization center number one and he 
brought me on as his second in command in the center. We ran that center for about a 
year before politically we got put out. Then after that Ed Brown—. 
EC: Rap’s big brother? 
RR: Big bro. Ed Brown asked me to come back to Mississippi and [2:10:00] 
work for the Child Development Group of Mississippi. I went in as the social service 
director. I worked there as social service director until I got put out of there. 
EC: You had a habit. 
49 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: They were in the process of breaking up CDGM and we were at this 
meeting with one of Senator Stennis’s people and this man just kept—every time he got 
ready to say something he would preface it with, “Can I say something, you boys?” 
“You boys” and “Can I tell you boys?” So finally I asked him, I says, “Can I ask you a 
question?” I said, “Why is that every time you get ready to say something to us you’ve 
got to put some preface on it about you boys? Ain’t a damn boy in this room.” Well, you 
know what happened after that. I lost my job because you don’t talk to white men in 
Mississippi that way and you don’t talk to Stennis’s man that way. So I got fired again. 
[Laughter] 
So then Noel Day who was married to Peggy Dammond was part of an 
organization called OSTI, the Organization for Social and Technical Innovation. 
EC: That’s a mouthful. 
RR: It was and they were full of shit too. Noel brought me in because they 
were dealing with a lot of housing situations and they were dealing with a lot of 
community people and involved in—the first project was Detroit and was working with 
the Free Detroit Committee and the Free Detroit Committee was getting ready to take 
over the east side and there was this community lady that was blocking them from doing 
it and they didn’t have nobody that was going up in there talking to this lady knowing 
what she was going on. So that was the first time I got caught up into going into the 
black community and reporting back. After that project I went on—Noel had talked to 
Kaiser and Gypsum out in Oakland, California. He had convinced Kaiser Cement and 
Gypsum to work with the Panthers [Laughter] to acquisition a piece of land called Acorn 
in east Oakland. They were going from acquisition to building—acquisition, planning, 
50 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
building, managing, all of this and it was based on a forty year plan, but they didn’t have 
nobody to get to the Panthers. 
So Noel had me to come out and of course find a way into the Panthers. Of 
course I knew Stokely and Rap and everybody and so I start talking to them. They said, 
“Reg, ( ), we’ll go for this one.” So then he turned me over to the Oakland people. 
When I went to the meeting—I was in the Oakland meeting for a couple of weeks or so 
and when I went to the meeting with the Panthers I was told, “We’re not going to deal 
with you. One, because you’ve been riding around town in a steel gray Cadillac.” I said, 
“That belongs to Kaiser Cement and Gypsum.” “Well, you belong to them” and blah, 
blah, blah. I said, “But you haven’t even heard what I got to offer.” “We’ve heard a little 
bit of it and we don’t believe it,” blah, blah, blah. I said, “Thank you.” I called Noel and 
I said, “Hey, it ain’t no deal. Ain’t no need of going through this bullshit.” And in the 
meantime I had met other people in town. So I said, [2:15:00] “Noel, there may be a way 
out of this. I met some community folk. Maybe we can switch it over and give it to the 
community folk.” So he said, “See what you can do.” 
Timothy Jenkins, who was an advisor to SNCC from the very beginning, and Tim 
comes out of Yale, out of National Student Association, Tim is always I consider to be 
the mouthpiece of SNCC. So I called the mouthpiece and I said, “Hey, man, didn’t you 
introduce to me to somebody that you had a partner somewhere out here? I’m out here in 
Oakland, California” and he said, “Yeah, I got a man out there by the name of Donald 
Warden.” I said okay and then I told Tim what I was doing and everything and he says, 
“Okay, look him up.” So I looked up Donald Warden, I got with Donald Warden, and 
then I met a Mrs. Love who was in charge of social service department of Oakland. I met 
51 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
a Mr. [Dumbreau?] who was a construction person. Fm thinking the NAACP’s person’s 
name was West. Fm not sure about that. But I formed a community group. That 
community group got together with Kaiser, got the acquisition of the land. The senior 
citizens house sits today called West Project Acorn. 
EC : What was Kaiser’s motivation? 
RR: I think Noel told me that Kaiser was trying to show some level of 
calmness that could happen. There would be a demonstration that other things could 
happen. If housing was a problem this is one way that you could do it and it was a way to 
show folks who had not been involved in acquisitions and all of the processes of going 
about building houses or getting into the business, they were willing to put up the money. 
And this was from big Kaiser Aluminum. This was a subsidiary of Kaiser Aluminum 
sitting there in Oakland and I guess this was part of their payback to Oakland. So I 
stayed with this company for a little while longer. They had several contracts with 
different cities with the model cities kind of stuff and each time I would be called in to go 
talk to the black community, but I couldn’t hear what was going on in the white 
community. So finally at a meeting I said [Laughter], “Why can’t I know what’s going 
on in the white folks’ meeting when I only got to go to the black folks’ meeting and take 
back what you all say happened in the white folks’ meeting? Why ain’t I there to 
understand what’s going on?” “You don’t need to understand what’s going on and 
you’re fired.” [Laughter] 
EC: You have a real talent. 
RR: So Fm out on the street again. Fm married by this time. I got married 
late [19]66, [19]67, somewhere like that. Lasted four years. I’m now having back pains, 
52 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
Fm having real sharp, sharp back pains. So I go to the doctor and the doctor tells me that 
Fm having muscle spasms and he gives me these little yellow pills and he tells me I have 
to take them three times a day and after I take them I have to sleep for two hours. I left 
the doctor’s office and stopped by my favorite druggist and back there in them days you 
could get a whole shopping bag full of reefer for ten dollars. [2:20:00] I got me some 
reefer and I went and got me a fifth of Jack Daniels. I went home and that same chair 
that I have sitting in my bedroom now, I sat in my chair, I set the pills on my desk, and I 
took me a shot of Jack Daniels, I rolled me a joint, and I sat there and I was trying to 
figure out how I’m going to sleep for six hours, take care of family—I only had the wife at 
the time, but how am I going to work and sleep six hours? 
The first conclusion I came to, that couldn’t be done. So then I started thinking 
about all of the things that was happening to me at the time. I had just been out on a 
consultancy with a buddy and I was working what we called a fish tank. We were 
working for this black consultant, this black architect, that had a black and white staff and 
he wanted to sensitize the staff, so I had all these people in the room that I knew 
something more than each one of them and I had to make them interact in order to get 
them to understand that this man wanted you to do his work and the hell with whatever 
you might think of him or whatever you might think of him. Just get the contracts done. 
Afterwards my guys was telling me, said, “Reggie, you did a great job but you almost 
blew the act because you smoke three packs of cigarettes in an hour.” So that thought 
kind of came to me and I lit up another joint. And I said to myself maybe cigarettes has 
got something to do with it. 
53 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
So I decided the next day I was not going to smoke. I was going to do everything 
I did normally every day and I went through the day. I came home, my wife was blowing 
smoke because she smoked at the time. She’s blowing smoke in my face so I talked to a 
buddy the second day and he told me, said, “You go three days, baby, you got it made.” I 
went fishing the third day. I ain’t smoked since. 
EC: Three packs to nothing? 
RR: To nothing. I just stopped. The next few days I continued to look at them 
pills and said, “It ain’t over yet.” Then I thought about coffee. I’d get out the bed, put 
my feet on the floor, I had to get a cup of coffee. Before I could wash my teeth I had to 
get a cup of coffee. Before I sit down to have a cup of coffee I’d have a cup of coffee. 
I’d take a bus, before I could get on the bus I’d have a cup of coffee, get off the bus, get 
on the train, have another cup of coffee. Before I walk in the office, have a cup of coffee, 
get to the office, have a cup of—phone ring, got to have a cup. Interview somebody, got 
to have a cup of coffee. I’m like this here. [Laughter] 
EC: You probably spent a lot of time in the bathroom too. [Laughter] 
RR: So I said coffee is the other one. So I got rid of coffee and started drinking 
tea and other kinds of things. Feeling a little better now. Now I’m working, but I’m 
working at something I do not like. I do not like it because I’m not free and I’m caught 
up into taking care of family and my daddy’s always—my daddy taught me—when my 
daddy got paid the whole family sat there and he’d delve out the money. He took care of 
the family first. Then he’d look at his hand and say, “Work shoes” and then whatever 
else he had to do. That’s the way I felt. I was in the position in that first OSTI thing, I 
didn’t even see my pay check. Went to the bank. She had the bank account. I was on an 
54 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
expense account. I had enough expense account to do anything I wanted to do. So I ain’t 
even seen money. 
Now this little other little job that I’m doing now, I see the money but the money 
is, I mean I’m doing shit that I just do not like. So the job is a problem. The job is 
becoming a problem, the marriage is becoming a problem, for all kinds of reasons. 
Bobbie Yancy calls me. oh, I finally got—I hadn’t quite got [2:25:00] rid of the other job 
yet, but I’m on my way, I’m getting rid of this job because this job is part of my miseries. 
EC: The one for the black architect? 
RR: No, that was just a quick consultancy. 
EC: So this is the OSTI job? 
RR: No, that was an outside job. Now I’ve left OSTI. 
EC: So who are you working for now? 
RR: I’m working for—who am I working for? Northwestern University. I’m 
doing one of them welfare programs where they got to teach people to read and write or 
else they get put off of welfare. I got a school more or less that’s running from 
kindergarten to high school with thirty-five-year-old women and derelict men and—whew, 
lord have mercy. And young students who haven’t got their life together and crashing 
out and it’s just becoming—I’m just not wanting all of this stuff. And then married to a 
psychiatric social worker too. And I’m just used to doing my own hustle. And one of the 
things that me and my wife had an agreement on is that once she got her masters then she 
would handle things, since we were talking about little babies, till things get right, then 
you take care of things while I put mine together. Of course by the time it came round 
for me, “Go to school, do this, do that.” I didn’t tell you what to do. Do what you do and 
55 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
I’ll do what I do and I guarantee you everything going to work out. Well, all of that’s 
happening. 
Anyway I get this phone call from Bobbie Yancy. Bobbie says, “Got a project in 
Memphis, Tennessee. If you’re free come right away.” Hot dog, I made it home. I 
walked through the door and there she was, my ex-wife, and she says, “I’m getting 
another apartment, I’m leaving.” I says no—and what I said to her when we first met was, 
“Whenever you get tired of me don’t hesitate to tell me that you’re going to go because if 
that’s the end that’s the end.” So when she said it I says, “No, hold still.” I says, “I’m 
going away for maybe about six weeks and when I get back then we’ll talk or something 
or other.” And over the course of time I’d already packed some bags and stuff. So I 
went on this project. This project was one of the first black caucus dinners in Memphis, 
Tennessee, working for A.L. Nellum Associates. So we did that project and we came on 
back and Bobbie gave me the option to meet her in DC because she was getting ready to 
take over a whole project here. So I get back to Boston and things ain’t what they used to 
be and ain’t what they was so I said, “All of that stuff I got packed in the comer and my 
records and my chair [Laughter], send that to the address I’ll send you” and I left Boston. 
And I’ve been back here in DC since [19]81. 
EC: How come you think so many SNCC people have come to DC, made DC 
their home? 
RR: You can make a living here and then with so many of us here we could get 
together and help each other, one of the things that happened to me even after Bobbie 
took the position with Nellum, it wasn’t a solid kind of thing to do because he wasn’t 
prepared to do the kinds of operations that was necessary, to do the kinds fundraising that 
56 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
was necessary, so the project just kind of fell apart and then there I was out there again. 
But because of who I knew around town I could get other consultancies and little things 
to [2:30:00] survive. And then friends would loan me money pay rent if I couldn’t find 
the rent. Then I got involved in the charter along with John Wilson. So I met and made 
friends that way and I was involved with a computer company called Afro-American 
[Datanamics?] which was at 14th and Kenyon and it had the only computer in the ground 
outside of any black institution between here and New York and it was a PDF 1145. It 
would cover this room. 
EC : Now you can put it in your pocket. 
RR: [Laughter] Got it right here. [Laughter] So we did all kinds of activities 
such as—our main thing was doing polls and things. And we did Marion’s poll, very first 
poll, to the numbers and showed where he whupped everybody. And of course showing 
him that and working things out, after the election we were rewarded with a few contracts 
and things were going along very well. But back there in those days electricity was 
bigger than what we could do. We couldn’t keep that big machine rolling and couldn’t 
bring in enough contracts to keep it rolling so the lights went out. So after that I kind of 
went on unemployment for a few years, which was a good thing. 
Then I was asked to come in work with the youth division—I worked for Pride 
before then, but I was asked to come in and work with the youth division in Department 
of Employment Services when Marion was doing his first—it was the time he was doing 
his second summer youth program, when we did the forty thousand. The first time was 
kind of a disaster because they hadn’t done the checks and balances that was necessary to 
keep up and match up these kids. So we matched up kids and kids went to the right 
57 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
places, they got their checks, and it was a successful program. And we did forty 
thousand one year in the summer and twenty-five hundred in the school year. I stayed 
with that program for about two or three years. Then I went to work as an investigator 
for the Department of Employment Services in the Department of Unemployment 
Insurance. 
EC: See if people really weren’t--? 
RR: That’s right, and I busted quite a few. [break in audio] And I saw quite a 
few that was arrested. And at that time the government was changing over from paper to 
data. I got involved in that and when I left government I was an assistant land 
administrator. I was operating at least a hundred machines, managing and maintenancing 
a hundred machines. I left the government twenty years to the day. only because I had 
planned to stay longer to help my partner because I had promised I would help her until 
she got through to—got all of the data in straight and she was moving pretty well and I’d 
promised to stay with her until October. But that May we were very, very busy one day. 
I mean up to our elbows in work and the director came up and said, [2:35:00] “All right, 
everybody stop and go down to the war memorial.” So we said, “Why would we have to 
do that? We’re busy.” “Everybody has to be there.” So we went. Of course bosses tell 
you what to do. 
EC: They do have that habit. 
RR: Yes. So we get down to the war memorial and we hear this person. So 
this person finishes what he’s got to say, then he says something like, “And as you leave 
out pick up my records and tapes.” So I turned to my partner and I said, “( ), 
right?” Pick up records and tape? What is this we’re doing? And then I find out that this 
58 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
guy was somebody they hired to come in as an incentive speaker to get us to do more 
work and here we were elbows asshole deep in work and they take us—I said nah, this 
don’t make no sense. So I said, “Linda, I’ll see you back uptown.” She said, “Where 
you going?” I said, “I’m going to personnel. If this is the kind of bullshit that’s coming 
down through this—” and the administration had just come in, a new administration had 
just come in and got new people coming in with all of this. I said, “If this is the kind of 
bullshit that’s coming in, I’m gone.” I went down, put in my papers. I was sixty-two 
years old, I was at May and I came in in May [19]61 [s/'c] and I left May 2001. I’ve been 
out now fifteen years doing exactly what I started out to do in 1961 is to become a free 
black person. And if you notice my emails I, comma, my last name, the reg, comma, 
FBP, and I’m dead serious about it. I am a free black person. I do every and anything I 
want to do. And that was the purpose of starting out. 
EC : That was your goal? 
RR: That was my goal, to become independent. I ain’t got no money. 
EC: But you’re independent. 
RR: I’m independent and not rich. 
EC: I have a few things, can I go back a little bit? 
RR: Hey, do what you got to do. 
EC : Do what I got to do. 
RR: Took me long enough to get this one. 
EC: I heard that. [Laughter] I know it. I ain’t going to waste it neither. 
[Laughter] What were you doing in summer of [19]64? Freedom summer. 
RR: [Pause] Oh, I was in New York. I was fundraising. 
59 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: Fundraising? 
RR: Yeah, I was—actually all through [19]64 after—let’s see. I left and went to 
work for Joseph Tydings, Senator Tydings, just before the challenge. I spoke with Miss 
Baker about it and she says, “If you feel as though it’s going to advance you in 
understanding what’s going on and everything, then go ahead and do it.” So I did that, 
then I came back. Then I was assigned to go and lobby for the MFDP. I went to 
California and I went to Oregon. I came back and then I was sent down to Atlantic City 
to assist in locating housing and necessary stuff, support pieces for the people coming in. 
Hooked up with Mary Lovelace who was from NAG who was already on the job trying 
to deal with this thing. And Mary, being one of those beautiful, beautiful black gals of 
our outfit, [2:40:00] we ran into one of the biggest gangsters in Atlantic City by the name 
of Reggie Edgehill and all of a sudden we started getting hotel rooms and 
accommodations and everything else that was necessary for us to bring our people in. 
Then after that then I was sent to New York to do special gift fundraising. I 
stayed in New York until I went to—. 
EC: Is that when you and Bobbie were working? 
RR: That’s when me and Bobbie were doing the special gift stuff. Then from 
there I was assigned to go to Philadelphia to set up the Philadelphia office for fundraising. 
Then a person by the name of Fred [Mealy?] came to town and just I guess I could say 
fucked up everything that we had built and was going in an opposite direction and we lost 
our gains that we had in Philly. So then Jim pulled me out of Philly and was sending me 
to Texas to meet up with a group of people who wanted to do some fundraising in Texas. 
So now I’m sent to—I’ve got to go through Atlanta and this is about late [19]65 now and 
60 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
things are in a disarray. And so things came—they don’t know which way to go and what 
to do so by the end of the year McDew calls me and I leave. That’s what I was doing in 
[19]64. 
EC: Seems like you did everything. Seems like you were the person that was 
on call for whatever was needed almost. Is that accurate? 
RR: Call me that or call me advance man, call me pickup man. 
EC: Forman could just rely on you? 
RR: Right? Because one time we weren’t getting reports out of the field so Jim 
and I jumped in the car, and of course I don’t drive, and we drove to all of our projects 
through Mississippi, through Georgia, Alabama, and everywhere. Event went up to 
check on the ( ) in north [Grana?]. And while Jim did that I talked to people and 
got reports and put reports back to Julian, even written reports and phone calls and stuff 
like that. 
EC: Is this probably [19]64, [19]65? 
RR: This is [19]63, [19]64. I don’t start the light activity until after—about late 
[19]64. 
EC: How would you describe Jim Forman for people who didn’t have a chance 
to meet him? 
RR: How would I describe the boss? He was a matter of fact kind of guy. He 
was a military thinking kind of person. He was a person that could tell you the plan and 
tell you your spot in the plan and if you carried out your spot and bring it back, it fit. If 
you deviated from the plan too much it didn’t fit. But if you followed him and did it the 
way he wanted you to do, everything would work out. 
61 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: Were you in the meetings, all the big meetings about what kind of 
structure SNCC should have, the debate about the floaters and the, what, the freedom 
high and, what was it, the structure? Did you get into that? 
RR: Tell you the truth I was at a lot of those meetings, but when it came down 
I would only involve myself when it became time to say what we’re getting ready to do. 
“Reg, we want you to go so and so and so.” I didn’t get into those philosophical 
conversations about Fanon’s words on [2:45:00] and Du Bois might have thought another 
thought or Frederick Douglass did something. I didn’t get into all of that. If we were 
going to move on a situation, the strategy is this, what’s my position? Am I lookout, am I 
moving in, am I going to set up stuff? What you want me to do? And then I go do it. 
That was my position and I worked very well with Jim in doing that. I worked very well 
with McDew in doing that. And that’s kind of I guess why I—. 
EC: And Ruby Doris? 
RR: And Ruby Doris. The boss lady was perfect for getting me to do anything 
she needed me to do. 
EC: What about the freedom rides? What was your thinking on the freedom 
rides? You have any interest? 
RR: By the time the freedom rides had started I was in McComb. And when 
they were coming back to Jackson, returning, in [19]61, we were making preparations for 
some of them to come down and work in McComb, which we did. That’s how Glen 
Green and Travis Britt and Ruby Doris and her boyfriend Billy came down. And there 
was other freedom riders that came down to work on voter registration. I got only 
involved in the freedom rides in Alabama. One of my assignments was that once 
62 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
Montgomery said everybody can ride the buses one of my jobs was to go in to 
Montgomery and ride the bus up front. [Laughter] So I mean Fm him. 
EC: And that’s like after they had attacked people coming off the bus? 
RR: Yeah, well, that’s kind of where it was. And that’s why I was a little 
skeptical when I was involved in this New York thing coming out of New York and Bill 
Hanson is announcing—and going into Cambridge you had to go around into a dark 
comer where the bus stop is and who knows who would have met us up in there. I mean 
there was a certain amount of secrecy about this shit that you did. You didn’t just go 
flagrantly. And now Bill is a professor in Nigeria or Lagos or somewhere. And I don’t 
know how he felt, but at the fiftieth he was only one walking around in the grand 
[booboo?]. So I don’t know. 
EC: So Hansen reminded me of Arkansas which reminded me of my good 
friend Worth Long. What was Worth like in the movement? 
RR: Oh, Worth was a charm. He too was somebody that you would listen to 
and you know that had a knowledge of organization. And he was somebody you could 
work with. And he was somebody you know you could walk the line with. If you were 
in the struggle with him you were there with him and he was there with you. He wasn’t 
afraid to be out there. He was a good man. 
EC: Were you ever in Albany? 
RR: Yes, I was in Albany. One of the things about Albany is that the girls had 
gotten locked up and Jim and I went out to see about them and we were on our way back 
and Jim had to go to the bathroom so Jim made this stop. And he went into this 
restaurant, into this kind of filling station, [2:50:00] and he came back out in a hurry 
63 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
holding hisself and he got back in the car. And I said, “Why are you holding yourself? 
Didn’t you go to the bathroom?” He says, “No.” He says, “I’ll hold till I get down the 
road.” I says, “What’s wrong?” He says, “There was a guy in there with a gun and I 
didn’t think this was the proper opportunity to give up my life for the revolution just to 
take a piss so I decided to get back in the car and let it out down the road.” So that was 
just one little thing about it. But then one of my jobs at the height of—I was in there 
before King came in and I was helping Sharrod to do some stuff. Then I was brought 
back in when all of King’s men came in and my job, because some of those guys knew 
me like YT and Andy and everybody, I could kind of slide around. So my job was to 
hang around Dr. Anderson’s house, they had a Dr. Anderson in Albany where they stayed, 
and just listen. 
EC: So you were the spy, the SNCC spy? 
RR: I was the SNCC spy. 
EC: Next to SCLC? 
RR: Next to SCLC. But now, one night I was sitting there and YT came to me 
and said, “Come on, take a ride with me.” So we got in the car. We drove to the jail. YT 
say he would take this tray in to doc. I said, “What?” He said, “Take this tray into doc.” 
Now, they had made a deal with the chief of police that no food would come in to doc, 
not unless it came from—. 
EC: The movement would feed him? The black community? 
RR: Right. So I said, “I’m going to take this in?” He said, “Yeah.” So I kind 
of said, “Oh, you son of a bitch, you’re paying me back.” So I took it in. and him and 
Martin and Abernathy was in there in their cell and they both had on silk pajamas and 
64 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
they were both laughing and talking and I gave each one of them their trays and Martin 
sat down and said thank you and immediately started eating. Old Pork Chops—that’s our 
nickname for Ralph Abernathy—looked at me and said, “Boy, they forgot the chocolate 
icecream.” I said, “Yeah, but I ain’t bringing it back.” [Laughter] As I proceed to say, 
“Jailer!” [Laughter] So I went back out and Wyatt and I laughed and we went on back to 
the house and sat around and looked some more, listened some more, whatever. And 
then I did what I had to do and followed Sharrod’s orders and went up in Baker and 
[Turow?] and did voter registration and stuff like that. But I was only there for a very 
short period of time. 
EC: In that early period? 
RR: In the early periods. And doing the—the big one is when I was really there, 
spent time there. 
EC: What about Selma? Did you go back to Selma after your scouting trip? 
RR: No, I never went back to Selma until 19—when did Bob take me down in 
there? 
EC: Vance? 
EC: Yeah. It must have been about eight or nine years ago when they started 
the jubilee stuff. He took me down in there and I was really surprised to see all of the 
turkey wings and the festivities and everything and he says, “I just wanted to show you 
what’s going on from your work.” And then he took me to the folks that was involved in 
the jubilee and everything and he introduced me as the first SNCCer that landed in Selma. 
And of course folks says, “Oh, yeah, okay” and that was it. [2:55:00] But that was about 
it. 
65 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: Got to find that report. 
RR: Right. And so then I would go down every year because Bob would do 
his thing and the jubilee would do his thing. Bob had an organization called The Trail 
and The Trail was made up of people that was up at the center of things in Lowndes 
County. That’s where the tent city was on eighty. Right there where they put that 
incentive center now and they’re still trying to get Bob’s information. Bob’s still ain’t 
going to put it in there because he didn’t want them to have it. 
EC: Was that tent city, was that from the voter registration in Lowndes or was 
that from the march? 
RR: That was from the march. 
EC: And you didn’t ever go into Lowndes during the movement? Were you 
part of the Lowndes organizing? 
RR: No, no. I hooked up with Bob later on in about—doing some other kinds 
of stuff, but we were always in touch. 
EC: He came out of Atlanta, right? 
RR: Yeah. 
EC: Was he a Georgia—? 
RR: Morehouse and all of that. Him and Joanne Vance came out of—. 
EC: How did they meet, do you know? 
RR: In Albany. Because Joanne is from Albany. 
EC: I knew that. 
RR: Yeah, that’s how they met. 
EC: So he was down there working? 
66 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: Right. 
EC: Okay. You want to stop here for a sec? [Break in recording] 
RR: Ella became, she became a friend, she became a close mother kind of 
thing. I guess I got close to her because of the relationship of my mother and her. And 
when I was changing over from the Tydings campaign going back in the field to do the 
lobbying for the MFDP Miss Hamer was in DC so I got Mrs. Hamer, Mrs. Baker, to 
come over and my moms fixed lunch for them and my moms and Ms. Baker had a real 
old girl get-together kind of thing. When I got married, the night before I got married, 
Ella and Joanne Grant took me out and got me drunk. [Laughter] Tried to make sure that 
I am doing what I intend to do. And then I of course got married at Belafonte’s house 
and of course my mother was there and of course Ella and my mother, of course knowing 
each other, was like my support pieces. Ella was mama. 
I mean when I ran into—before I left Cambridge in between things, things got kind 
of tough and I was having trouble at home with my moms and I was actually—I don’t 
want to—I was actually having trouble in Cambridge and I needed some time out. So Ella 
suggested that I go talk to Joe Baker who was one of the medical committee for civil 
rights and she was a psychiatrist and so Ms. Baker suggested I go talk to her. And when I 
went to talk to Joe of course she says, “You ain’t crazy. You’re just mixed up in a lot of 
stuff that you can’t figure out right now. So what we’re going to do is we’re going to 
send you to Mount Eagle—” not Mount Eagle. Peekskill—’’Peekskill, New York for about 
a week and what you’re going to do up there is just rest, read, do everything, and at the 
end of the week there’s a fundraiser, the Paul Robeson [3:00:00] fundraiser. It’s the 
67 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
history of when Paul Robeson spoke in Peekskill and John Hammond junior is going to 
be on the program and everything and you’re going to just take yourself a little rest.” 
So I went to Peekskill, had lots of fun, and spoke on what I knew about Paul, 
about Big Pauly, and then got a surprise of being taken to Sam and Helen Rosen’s who 
Sam Rosen was the doctor that went to Russia to bring back Paul Robeson. And while 
I’m sitting there in Katonah, New York, outside resting my feetses in the good sun, this 
big black man comes out and sits next to me with this deep voice and we introduce 
ourselves and damn, if it ain’t Paul Robeson. So then Doc comes out and they had such a 
house that they had a sauna and you walk to the sauna and then you walk down these 
stairs and you get under this natural stream. So here’s us men in this sauna buck naked 
running out, running down under this ice cold mountain water and just talking. And I am 
with Paul Robeson. Well, I can’t thank Ella enough for taking me out of this situation. 
So I go back into Cambridge and I’m revitalized now and I’ve gotten all my stuff 
together as to what I’m doing so I’m talking to Ruby about what’s going on and what I’m 
feeling and what’s happening. So Ruby’s saying—that’s when we began the process of 
my moving out because one of the other things that Gloria did was Gloria tried to petition 
Atlanta for me to stay and it was really time for me to go. And so that became a bone of 
contention. 
EC: Did she feel like they still needed your help? 
RR: Yeah. But I knew that they were on their own. I got rid of all of the 
surrounding people like, as I said, the NAACP and all of the big organizations was 
coming in once we got things going, when the students were coming in. So now the 
board is taken care of and taking care of the situation, but there was this other group 
68 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
coming in. With Carol Rogoff, this reporter was very hard on Carol so I got Carol to get 
this reporter to take me for a ride. And we had a little conversation about silk suits and 
guys who wear denim and the organizers who work in denim are closer to the people, the 
local people, and the ones that’s in these shiny silk suits are coming in making collections. 
Well, the story got out the next day and of course the local folks wanted to know where 
such a story came from and what they all linked it back to the NAACP and they chased 
them out of town. So the local board then began to run their own business and they had 
nobody else outside of SNCC who not making any turf kind of—. 
EC: SNCC didn’t want to build itself up? 
RR: Right, building the organization, but we were making good on what SNCC 
was doing in Cambridge and Cambridge was doing okay. So it wasn’t necessary for us to 
control as the big organization. The idea was you make these things and then you control 
them and then you last for hundreds and hundreds of years. 
EC : That’s the NAA’s approach? 
RR: Well, yeah. And the NAACP has come a long way and done a damn good 
fight and still doing a good fight, but their fight isn’t the only fight. They take the fight to 
the point of the courts, but the courts [3:05:00] are part of the system which has a certain 
amount of dictation. But just like what’s happening today, you’ve got to push the 
envelope. I grew up in Baltimore. All of that stuff that had happened last week from 
Freddie Gray just didn’t happen. People have been out of work, people have been taken 
away from opportunities. 
I got a cousin that lives in Pikesville. When you’re going out to her house you 
have to come up ( ) up Liberty Road and if you get to Liberty Road and Belvedere 
69 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
on one side of the street is the Pimlico race track, multimillion-dollar operation. On this 
side of the street is junkies laying in the street. It does not make any sense. This side of 
the street is the Jewish community, clean. This side of the street is junkies. A 
multimillion-dollar operation sitting here. Downtown Baltimore, you’ve got the wharf, 
you’ve got all of that money coming in and people coming in and buying. You’ve got the 
new Hollywood Theater gambling and going on and you come three, four blocks, nothing. 
You’ve got people out of work. You’ve got black people that will walk down to the 
wharf, going to Philips and will look different, look at you differently. And ain’t nothing 
changed in Baltimore. Until something comes about in all of these cities, I mean if they 
chase that dude out of Chicago what’s going to take its place? 
EC: You talking about Rahm Emanuel? 
RR: Yeah, what’s going to take its place? It look like they may or may not 
convict this guy in Baltimore, but the police are part of the problem. The police are part 
of the power and the power is which controls—that’s what’s controlling all of these wars 
and everything else. They said on the television this morning that they’re going to take 
away people’s oil in order to stop them from killing people. When you take away 
somebody else’s income what are they supposed to do but fight you? So it’s the same 
thing in Baltimore, the same thing in Chicago, the same thing in Ferguson. They got to 
do it. And we can play a role and it seems to me to be very simple. There’s more rich 
black folks today than there was in 1920. It seems to me that there ought to be enough to 
have guts enough to put the money together and come to the poker table and play the 
game. We can do laundry bets, we can do computer—we can get together with one of 
70 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
them companies that do the computer tools, we can teach people to get jobs, decent jobs, 
to make a living. And that’s where I think we ought to go. 
EC: You think that’s the direction? 
RR: I think that’s the direction because voter registration is leading us to 
people who are elected on the Hill, I don’t see any difference in them having—I don’t 
know exactly how Congress works but they work from rules. So when you become a 
part of a rule then you become a part of the problem. So you can’t do this because this 
rule goes over here, you can’t do this because this rule’s over here. I’m no different than 
anybody else. When they say we’re going to have a black President I start thinking that 
my world is going to become different. I did not expect no black President to hold no 
beer conference after another black man has been stopped in his doorway and locked up 
for going in his own house and he’s got to sit down and make an appeasement? Uh-uh, 
no. There’s something wrong. 
EC: That’s not from a position of power. 
RR: We’re not in power. And these boys that sit up on the hill, God bless them 
[3:10:00] but they ain’t doing no different than the boys did in construction except too 
many of them ain’t spitting tobacco on the side. But I don’t know about—I know that 
voter registration leads to new leadership and new leadership leads to change in a sense. 
Ferguson now has a chance of changing because now more black people are involved in 
the process. 
EC: What did you think of SNCC’s move towards black power? What did that 
mean to you at the time? Do you see a connection to that now? 
71 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: That’s exactly what Fm talking about now. The move towards black 
power was not to use guns. The media threw the whole thing off when they could latch 
onto Bobby Seale and the rest of them with their gunplay. I mean we weren’t talking 
about—we were talking about the same thing that I’m talking about now, opportunities to 
make money in order to create money for people to make money to buy houses, to be 
able to control schools, to be able to get recreation centers, to do things for kids to make 
kids grow, and do things in our community that we know that we want to have our own 
religions and do what we want to do without being dominated by it. We were not talking 
about guns. Because we know we can’t win with guns. The Indians didn’t win with guns 
and nobody else won with guns. I think when Japan was trying to make some kind of 
deal they dropped the bomb on them over there and locked up everybody over here. You 
can’t deal with these people that way. So if we had our base functioning in such a sense 
that they knew that we would come after them, the black politicians as well as the white 
ones, with a power base, coming from a power base. Some of these entrepreneurs that 
have made money, some of these black folks that live in the Watergate, some of these 
ones that don’t have to worry about it coming back on them, that they can do things 
without it coming back on them. Put that money together. Put that money together and 
let’s go out and fight. 
EC: So this is going back again, but did you ever organize or go back in 
Mississippi after you left McComb? 
RR: Yeah, I was with the Child Development Group in Mississippi. 
EC: That’s right, you already told me that. Other than that though? 
RR: Nah. 
72 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
EC: So do you have anything else you can think of I haven’t asked? 
RR: Nah. [Laughter] 
EC: You’re not going to help me out there, are you? If I can’t ask you you’re 
not going to—[Laughter], All right, I can’t argue with you. What do you want people to 
know about the movement? 
RR: That we were lucky enough to have somebody like Ella Baker to present 
us with a very, very simple plan as taking people from where they are and bringing them 
up. Those that are already on top don’t necessarily need to push, but they need to support 
those from the bottom. And if those from the bottom would understand what the 
opportunities are for them and given the opportunity to look at that and examine that, 
then more people would move on their own and make decisions based on their need 
which would be, I think, a thing that the majority of folks would begin to see that we all 
need the same thing. And it would be easier to come together. So I think that we left 
folks [3:15:00] something that I think wasn’t dealt with in any other movement, we dealt 
with a thing that let folks know that they are the leaders, that there’s no one leader. If 
you get up and you want to do something somebody’s going to follow, but you’ve got to 
go and do what you want. You’ve got to know that you want to do something and you 
become a leader then. If enough people do that then we have a movement. We don’t 
need another Martin Luther King. We’re all Martin Luther Kings. 
And that was one of the things that we tried and are still trying to get away from. 
I mean even that movie that Oprah did—. 
EC: Selma? 
73 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: She used a lot of money to tell a story that could have been told a totally 
different way and give up a lot of information that would have been true instead of some 
un-factual situation. And compare that to the one that Robinson did called Freedom Song 
where he depicted us going into Mississippi, registering people to vote, getting the people 
involved, as opposed to having Jim and John sitting in front of a conference with Jose 
reprimanding Jim Forman. That has never happened. Jim was not that kind of person. 
Jim was as old as Martin. Jim was more of a leader than Martin. And Jim had his own 
organization and was aware of the fact of having his own organization and having the 
strength and backing of his own people to say any damn thing he needed to say. And at 
that point we were already been chased out of Selma and he’s already—not Selma but 
chased out of southwest Georgia with them blastering [.s/c] in and not leaving anything. 
EC: You talking about SCLC? 
RR: Right. But I’m talking about the movie. 
EC: Yeah, I know. How they showed it. 
RR: Right, and then Oprah in a car—and then John in a car with Martin driving 
and Martin talking? That’s bullshit. Martin ain’t drove no damn where. And we didn’t 
put John Lewis out. It was John Lewis’s choice to leave. Always believed that he 
wanted to be an SCLC person anyway because he was brought up under that preacher, 
Jim Lawson, love thy neighbor, Gandhi, whatever that stuff was. 
EC: Were you at the meeting where Stokely was elected? 
RR: No. 
EC: You weren’t there? 
74 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
RR: I wasn’t there for all of that either. But Oprah could have used her monies 
to do a different—if she wanted to do anything she should have shown the relationship 
that went on because they were scared to death in Selma and they were scared to death in 
Albany, Georgia, and each place they were telling us, “Don’t do this, y’all going to get 
killed.” The same thing that adult advisors was telling us everywhere, just stop. 
EC: Yeah, it’s not a very good depiction of the movement. 
RR: No. 
EC: And a bad depiction of SNCC. 
RR: Right. For some reason they want to either rewrite the history or write us 
out and that’s one of the things I think the value of the SNCC legacy project is because 
it’s coming back in a way that allows us to say and do what we know to do, which is 
organize. I just got the email asking [3:20:00] what to do, when to do, raising money, 
and everything, and I responded, “Fm available except for a couple of things.” I got to 
take piano lessons and recognize them dates and I’m trying to get some new knees so 
those are the only things, otherwise Fm available to move. If you want me to go down 
into Selma and go down into Ferguson to talk to some of them, I’ll go. Whatever you 
need me to do, if it don’t conflict with my obligations, I’m free to go. 
EC: So you’re still playing that same role? 
RR: I still play the same role, if you need me. If you don’t need me leave me 
alone and I’ll go fishing, which is something I love to do. 
EC: Any final thoughts for the interview? 
RR: I guess it’s my dream to see a group of black folks come together in a 
financial kind of situation that’s honest enough and got enough guts to not be worried 
75 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
about consequences but to be worried about program and what’s moving ahead. And use 
our resources for what we know we can use them for, for simple kinds of things that we 
could get involved in and help our community to grow. Such as if we had a bank on the 
comer that could loan Ms. Johnson twenty-five dollars to open up a Laundromat, loan 
Bill Henry twenty-five dollars to open up a pool hall and that money comes back as some 
recreation. Somebody else may want a restaurant. Maybe we can talk one of these 
companies, one of these high tech companies, of coming into a small town like 
Greenwood. Ed Brown had a manufacturing company going on, [Carl Mace?], where 
they made denim. Why can’t we find outlets and then let that money roll around in the 
community before it goes—then it can go out on the stock exchange. 
Mr. Adams, who I mentioned earlier on, they didn’t find out that he owned Park 
Sausage. You know what Park Sausage is? Park Sausage is a sausage that’s been out for 
years and it had a commercial called, “Ma, more pork sausage,” but it was known as a 
black-owned business, but everybody thought it was owned by Henry Parks but it was 
actually owned by Mr. Adams. And until it went on the stock exchange nobody knew 
that it was owned by Mr. Adams, but Mr. Adams was pushing money around in the 
community from a policy book. If one man can have all of this business—he had 
businesses on Pennsylvania Avenue from North Avenue down to Green Street. He 
owned the Royal Theater which was all a part of the chitlin circuit. I’m saying if one 
man can take his finances—he sent his wife, the first black woman to go to the Maryland 
state legislature. If one black man can put this kind of money together and do these kinds 
of things just think of maybe seven or eight putting in some money and going to work. 
76 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
And when the Klan walk up and say, “You can’t do this,” fuck you, we got enough to do 
it. 
And somebody told me, says, “Reg, once you build this kind of thing the bigger 
people will come in and buy it.” I said, “then that makes it even better because if we got 
something small here and the bigger people want to buy it that means that more 
economics is coming down in here and that’s what we want to see.” We want to see it 
grow. We don’t want to see it to stop. So if that can happen I’d love to see that happen. 
[3:25:00] 
EC: Sounds like a good plan. Just got to talk somebody into it. 
JB: ( ) 
RR: That’s it every day. 
EC: I can’t thank you enough for agreeing to the interview. I’m just really 
honored to have a chance to do this interview with you. 
RR: Well, it all has something to do with me too. USA Today )\\st did a thing 
with me and supposed to be coming out soon. I was looking for that report and didn’t 
find it and then there’s other kinds of questions that’s coming up about me. So and then 
SNCC legacy is trying to pull stuff together for us to do things so I figured—. 
EC: They’ll be able to use this. 
RR: Right. For whatever reasons. You know my policy of somebody coming 
up and asking me for an interview, but if it’s done in the context of what the legacy is 
doing and you go to Charlie and Charlie approves it and everything that’s cool with me, 
but still if anybody comes to me—. 
EC: I know the policy. 
77 
AFC 2010/039: CRHP0130 
Reginald Robinson 
F : This has been a presentation of the Library of Congress and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
END OF RECORDING 
Transcribed by Audio Transcription Center, March 21, 2017 
78