Arthur Aiken June 12, 2014  
 
Westminster, Vermont 
.15 Introductions and Happy Birthday. He is 101 years old. 
.45 Length of time working tobacco is ten years during the 30’s. Broad description of jobs from June 
planting to suckering to breaking tops to working with them all summer until harvest time. 
1:38 September is harvest time. Get ready in September to cut more of the tops off and then cut it down 
with a special hatchet. They have one in the museum where he took one. Once they are down there is a 
needle that goes on the end of the stick, got some in the garage, put the needle on the end, grab a stick, 
put it on the needle and then slide it down the stick. When there are so many on there you load it on 
the wagon and go to the barn and then you start loading the shed. One person to the next until you 
hang it in the peak. 
3:15 I worked everywhere, I drove teams of horses picked up the load and brought it to the shed. I could 
stand the horses and if I wanted them to move I spoke to them. If they needed to back up they’d back 
up. I used to stand spread out like an eagle and hand up one to the fellow above. When you get the barn 
full, you go to another one. 
4:09 “Holton used to have 100 acres. That is a lot of tobacco. He had a pile of barns in this town. From 
the Walpole Bridge, south, there was a whole row of tobacco barns. They had tobacco barns all down 
the street. From Roots depot down through a lot of the buildings had tobacco barns.”  
 5:00 He describes the process of curing tobacco. “When it was raining they’d open the doors to cure the 
tobacco. When it was cured we had to take it off the lath and put it in a big pile then you had to strip it 
to get all that you could hold in your hand and give it to the guy who put it in the box. All the tips went 
one way and the butts went the other. Then once the box was full, somewhere in the vicinity of 40-45 
pounds you tied it up and take that bundle and put it in a pile.” 
(His nephew Frank walks into the kitchen) 
6:18 Finished just before deer season in November. 
6:45 How much he got paid. 18 dollars a week straight time. Take it on a rainy day you got paid for it just 
the same because you had to take care of the horses. Otherwise I was a regular laborer at 12.00 a week. 
7:40 This was not shade tobacco. It was made for cigars. We used to make them. The first one I ever 
smoked I thought I’d never do it again. Just like a good drunk. 
8:17 My nephew out there Frank used to pick tobacco. (He says that when he came home from work 
he’d be covered in nicotine) 
8:35 Sand leaves. The bottom ones. We’d use them for fillers. Put a big leave on the table and then stack 
the rows take a match and light it. Boy did that smell good. 
9:28 Fellow in a shed in Wolpole was way up to the top and we heard him fall clear from the top and 
didn’t miss a pole. Ended up on the ground. “What you doing Dutchy? Breaking things?” No. He went 
right back up and finished the load.  
10:00 “Hardest job is to slide the tobacco up the stick and get it off. They had a thing to put it over the 
tet, pull it and a whole bundle would drop down and someone would put it in the hake. We’d start at 
about 7:00 in the morning and by noon your hands were all nicotine. You ate nicotine for dessert!” 
11:15 (Arthur’s nephew Frank interjects here about not taking any breaks from 7:00-noon.After that 
you’d work till 6 or 7. He worked in the fields for a few summers.) 
11:45 We used to scoop up sand and rub it all over ourselves to help relieve the sticky. Sticky mess. It 
worked pretty good. Next day you go back and do the same for six or seven days a week. 
(Frank interjects: That’s why all these old people are all stooped over.) 
12:15 I worked for Charlie Holton, The Williams brothers, I worked for Winter Bend. All right here on 
Route 5. When they had floods I worked for Winter Powers. Across from Goddells.  
13:15 All the barns were pretty much the same. Slats on sides you had to close them when dampness 
was done.  
13:17 Didn’t heat with braziers. You put it in a big long hake, big pile of it. Throw a blanket on top of it. 
Charlie Holton had a garage. Take a bunch in there. Your hands were pretty cold in the fall of the year. 
Some used to wear gloves but cut the fingers off. 
14:17 Stripped it all in the Fall. Everything was all done by the month of November. If you couldn’t do it 
by then, you’d leave it for the spring. 
14:45 Winter work you’d sit in the woods and chop wood. We had to get so we could keep going for 
another year. But they had quite a few barns right here in the Village. 5 
(Frank: There was a one in Walpole where the school was wasn’t there? Ya a big one.) 
15:45 One where the road goes into Walpole where it meets with High Street. Had to back the horses 
down the street into that barn. Then Mitch Wright had one up on the corner. Dr. Buckhorn. Tore it all 
down now. Done away with it. 
(Frank: Charlie Holton has one still standing) 
16:45 Charlie Holton had a barn burn down, They had a bunch of horses and cows in there. 
17:00 We used my horses. We didn’t have tractors then. This was way back in the 30’s.  
17:30 We worked with people from right around here. A lot of Polish. 
18:00 The girls used to have to stand on the top of the wagon. Go up the gang plank, they’d pass it to 
them. They had a lot of young girls. The third pole up there’d be girls. John Coleson the polish fellow was 
way in the top the last one up there. Clear up in the top. Hardly anyone wanted to go up there. Long 
ways down to the bottom. 
19:00 when the sun was right out you had to be careful how much you cut down leave it on the ground 
it would get burnt. So you had to be awful careful.  
19:32 Ya they have barns down in Putney along the river. 
19:48  Deckers were the ones who started with tobacco up in here. They ended up in south Deerfield so 
Charlie Holton got into it. He’d put in 100 acres of potatoes, and had all of his tobacco to tend to in the 
summer. In the fall we’d have the potatoes 
20:32 Put them in a bin up at Bellows Falls in cold storage. We’d spread the potatoes all over here in 
stores. Took a load every day down to Fitzberg Produce Company. 
20:10 Someone from Deerfield would come out to the barn to check on the tobacco and see what grade 
it was. They’d have something to load it on and take it down there. Tobacco gave us a place to work. 
Better than sitting around twiddling your thumbs. 
We didn’t get much money but we had a lot of fun. I enjoyed driving team on the planter. I used to set 
tobacco too. 
22:15 Describes planting tobacco on planter with tank of water. 
23:33 Describes how horses learn to move with every step. How they would hear the noises of planting 
and knew when to move.  
24:45 During the Depression we were lucky to have a job. 
25:20 I wanted something with a pension. You could work on the farm and you’d still be the same. So I 
had some nice friends on the railroad and they wanted me to work on the railroad. So I got a job 
working on the railroad.  
26:10 Gets a citation from the railroad when he turned 100.  
Finally tobacco business in town. Holton passed away and his boys didn’t want to keep growing tobacco. 
Now they have a bunch of cows that take up the fields. All the tobacco fields are full of corn and hay 
now.  
28:00 Describes a hail storm and how it damages the tobacco leaves and then what they would do with 
the leaves. 
29:00 After he joined the railroad he got Holton’s son to get him some plants from Deerfield and grew it 
in the backyard and hung the leaves in the barn so that he could make his own cigars.