1 
 
February 6, 2013 
Home of Kevin and Phyllis Acres, Madrid, NY 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Varick Chittenden (VC), with Hannah Harvester (HH) 
Interviewees: Kevin Acres (KA) and Phyllis Acres (PA) 
Transcribed by:  Mimi Rooney 
(0:00:00) 
VC: I am Varick Chittenden and this is Wednesday February 6, 2013 and I am sitting at the dining table of 
the Acres family farm in the town of Madrid in St. Lawrence County, New York. We are here to talk 
about the changes in the nature of work on your family farm. So Kevin and Phyllis, tell me the general 
family history. 
KA: My parents, who were young Canadians, bought the farm 1948. I think how they ended up here, 
according to an older uncle of mine, is that they went on a honeymoon to Niagara Falls. My father had a 
3rd cousin that lived in Madrid. I know in the home farm, which is in Winchester, Ontario, which is 
eastern Ontario, that my Uncle Bruce was returning home to the farm. I think that my father and his 
brother Bruce, who got along great, and their dad was still there; I think it was probably a little too 
crowded for my mother. So when they married, the ferry, which was in Waddington at the time—
Winchester is just 20 miles north of Waddington basically, so they took the ferry across, then drove 
down to Niagara Falls, and on the way home they visited Gerald Acres, which is my father’s third cousin, 
who had purchased a farm in Madrid. According to my eldest Uncle Arnold, at that particular time you 
could buy a better farm for less money on the U.S. side. So that is what they did. My mother taught at 
the half way house for one year, which is a one room school house, and that’s actually how they met in 
Canada. She came to the community of Vernon and was a school teacher there. My father’s parent’s 
farm was about a mile and a half down the road and that’s how my parents met. She is actually from 
Richmond, which is just south of Kanata, really close to the city, beautiful farm land also, and the same 
with Winchester. I know that is how they ended up here. I think they paid $13,000 for the farm in 1948 
and it had 40 sheep, it had some chickens, and I don’t know if it came with any cows and the tools that 
were associated with the farm came with it. They bought it from Walter and Ethel Short, and they were 
retiring and wanted to get out of the farming business. So that’s the start. 
VC: So that was an older couple? They had no children? 
KA: I can’t tell you how many they had. They had 2 or 3 sons or daughters. I know there’s one son and 
one daughter. They would be in their 90s right now. So I have never actually met them, but I think over 
the years they have come back and visited the community because Walter and Ethel just moved to the 
Chipman four corners, which was 2 miles away, and bought a home on the corner, right there. A very 
nice couple, they built this house that I actually was born in. I am the 6th child out of 10 there are 5 boys 
2 
 
and 5 girls. So they were pretty busy, about every year and half. I don’t know what else you want to 
know. 
VC: That’s good for starters.  
(0:04:12) 
VC: Phyllis, will you give us some of your personal history? 
PA:  Well I grew up in Heuvelton, which is probably about 20 miles from here. I also grew up on a family 
farm. I would have no idea when my mother and father bought the farm and moved there, but I come 
from a family of 6 children, and nobody took over the farm in my family.  
VC: How did you meet? 
PA: Kevin and I knew each other through 4-H when we were young actually. So we were friends from 4-
H when we were young and had known each other until we were 16 or so, and then I went to Potsdam 
State and Kevin was down at Brockport taking classes and then at Potsdam State and that’s when we ran 
into each other again. So that’s how we met. 
VC: The rest is history. 
PA: 30 years this year. 
VC: This year, in 2013? 
PA: Yes. 
KA: When were you married? 
PA: In 1983. So it’s true, I saw this woman from a distance of about 500 feet away, and I said, “Boy, that 
is the kind of woman I would like to marry.” Actually, when we got close, it was Phyllis. But she had 
short hair and I hadn’t seen here since she was 16, and she had really long hair down to her waist at that 
time. So she had a pretty serious boyfriend; I had to execute him. [Laughter] So here we are. 
(0:06:03) 
VC: When your family first bought this farm, it was how many acres? 
KA: 297 acres. 
VC: Contiguous? 
KA: It is pretty much all connected. I would have to really think about how much tillable, about 100 acres 
of that, maybe 150. Some of it was pasture land because they had sheep, so there wasn’t the tillage 
practices being done there, they were surely not growing any corn, but that came after with my father 
here. So I think it was all pretty much grazing and then dry hay, which is your first cut now, you will try 
to take off by May 20th. Then it was July 20th, just before the fair. It was a one cut system. You grazed, 
3 
 
and your best hayfield you saved for your winter feed. In those days it would really be beyond maturity. 
It was yield and fodder and kept the cows warm, and the cows didn’t milk as much in the winter time; it 
was more about spring calving season and much like the people that are grazing cattle today for milk 
production. 
(0:07:32) 
VC: So the knowledge that you are talking about now, such as with hay cuts, was that knowledge passed 
on in the family; what was it based on? 
KA: It was based on science. I think what farmers discovered around here, there was a big emphasis 
from Cornell to move towards corn grain and silage and growing your own grain for more production. So 
I think that was based on the universities. They were the ones that actually really pushed that.  So 
people moved away from grazing and they saw that with the addition of corn silage that they could 
actually make more milk and sustain production for longer periods of time, better condition on the 
cows, and I think all that came into play, breeding artificial, just higher levels of management on a 
continual basis. 
(0:08:12) 
VC: Was your father getting information through Extension? 
KA: My father was really kind of an innovator, he wasn’t afraid to take on new technology. We had the 
first milking parlor in St. Lawrence County. I can remember the school buses coming. It was 1962, and 
they put in a double 6. My father was a good business man and a hard working fellow. He hated to pay 
retail. If he wanted to buy a corn seeder or something, he became a dealer. If he wanted to buy 
fertilizer, he sold fertilizer. The same thing with the milking parlor, he didn’t want to sell something that 
he didn’t try out. So I don’t know exactly where, we used to get the Hoard’s Dairyman, and I think 
Holstein World, I can remember cutting out the pictures of the cows and the bulls. We would put them 
on cardboard and we would have our own little farm on the table when we were young. He had those 2 
subscriptions, but we were registered breeders, but there were articles in there, and certainly Hoard’s 
Dairyman, I think was the basis for the majority of the dairymen in the country for research. Professors 
wrote different article and William Hoard is legendary back in the 1800s how the cow is the mother of 
all civilization and should be treated with respect, and that is the whole basis of the magazine. The 
legacy has continued on. They are actually as progressive as some of the other dairy magazines now. The 
other magazines, which are free, they have the latest of the research, the cutting edge stuff.  Hoard’s 
Dairyman is a little bit behind that in some regards. They still have some of the professors, but some of 
the information comes a little late, but they still have some of the basics in there, basics about making 
good silage, and transitioning a cow from her dry period, when she’s not milking the difficult time is 
called transition, when she becomes a mother again, and reaches full production. Cows give 2/3 of their 
production in the first 100 days, but may milk for a full year. So you got to get it right. If you don’t get it 
right, it used to be with the dry cows, they went out in the back 40 and you just forgot about them, and 
now everything has totally changed, where that is the focus. The 60 days before giving birth and the 60 
days after, it’s actually probably a tighter window than that, 30 days before and 30 days after. For those 
4 
 
60 days, if you get that right, you’ve got it done, and that is the critical thing. They have to have the right 
minerals, they can’t be getting too much energy, they can’t be giving too much protein, but they still 
have to have enough protein, all kinds of things, anionic salts and buffers and different buffers. It is not 
as specialized as with the chicken industry or the pig industry, because they know they need X number 
ounces of this, or X number ounces of that. One of the advantages is that they have a single stomach, 
but the cow has 4. A fermentation vat, a beer vat basically, they have beer going on down there, so as it 
transitions from all the 4 stomachs into the small intestine, all the absorption, all that stuff. The cow is a 
really forgiving animal, you can mess up, but somehow she will still survive, and you can continue on. It’s 
getting with the margins that you can’t make those mistakes anymore. It’s becoming much more 
specialized and it is being changed with the size of the dairies now. The larger farms have the advantage 
in that they have someone that specializes: maybe they just have someone to cave cows out all day and 
take temperatures, and check on the fresh cows. Somebody else does the heifers, and someone else 
does the rest of the dairy. Someone else is doing crops. Somebody is just doing the feeding. The feeding 
systems are computerized so you know, you can tell by the operator if he is actually dumping in the right 
amount of pounds, so many pounds of grain; so many pounds of this mineral. All you have to do, it’s 
even wireless, so you can check if someone is doing a good job. You may have a feeder that doesn’t 
want to leave the loader and go get that 90 pounds of minerals, and you can figure it out, based on 
inventory tracking and the margin. You take a dairy that is milking 3,000 cows, and they are off by a 
pound a day, well, that is 3,000 pounds in your tank. You can’t be looking over everybody’s shoulder, but 
you have to have systems in place because the margins are so tight that people are doing the job that is 
required. It’s a higher skill set, is actually required by those that want to do the job, that are available for 
the laborer, many of them don’t have those skills. At least as what we would call the labor positions. 
(0:15:12) 
VC: Many of the farmers we have talked to are college graduates-- that surprised me. 
KA: Yes, I would say. I am actually, because I went for a Phys. Ed degree, that I am the odd man out. 
Where I have the advantage is that I grew up here, and did all the work and stuff. I like to read, so I 
educated myself. I continually go to seminars and stuff. Miner’s Institute, up in Chazy—they are kind of 
like a little mini Cornell and they actually used to be affiliated with Cornell. William Miner is the guy that 
created the locking mechanism for the train cars. Before you had to back them up and put a pin in them, 
and that is where he made his money way back in the 1800s, slam it back in the lock and other 
inventions. He really loved to farm; they called it Heart’s Delight Farm. So he wanted to have an 
experimental farm there, so they do a lot of cutting edge technology. They are set up with laboratories 
and have PhDs on staff. It is actually like a teaching farm, too, because they have individuals that come 
in from University of Vermont that do semester and internships there and also SUNY Plattsburgh. It’s 
beautiful because we are at the same altitude, so what they’re growing there will work on my farm. So a 
lot of the work they have done, particularly, like fescues, grasses, stuff like that, have been really 
important for me. You have to keep educating yourself. 
(0:17:02) 
5 
 
VC: How did you go into Phys. Ed? 
KA: I love sports as you know. What a great job that would be, summers off, and handing out basketballs 
all day long, and it was just something that I really wanted to do and that was my intention. It was just a 
stroke of luck or fate, depending on who you’re talking to, 2 of the 3 individuals I roomed with at 
orientation were going into this alternate college. The alternate college at Brockport was an 
experimental thing, and what appealed to these other 2 individuals I was rooming with, Lloyd Burmbom 
and Steve Flagg, was that you could graduate in 3 years and they were gung hoe to get their college 
education done and get out there and start making some money. They were really money oriented. We 
had really good time over that 2 or 3 day orientation and became best of friends so I thought, “I would 
do this thing.” What the alternate college was was an intensive liberal arts program. I never took a 
multiple choice test the whole time I was there during my liberal arts curriculum; it was all 15, 20 page 
papers. I can remember the first class, we came in and the teachers name was Doug Edmonds. He points 
to a chair and says, “What’s that?” “It’s a chair.”   “No, it’s not.” “It’s a chair.”   “No, it’s not a chair unless 
you’re sitting in it for the function of being a chair.” That was the introduction to philosophy. So it was 
that type, it was very intensive. It made me realize as I was going through the curriculum of Phys. Ed 
how disjointed and how little I actually had in common with my peer group. I was slated for the last 
semester, to student teach for 15 weeks at Churchfield Chi High in Elementary Phys. Ed. I cancelled and 
took 18 credits of Indians in America, Jazz in America, stuff that I found that were really interesting. I 
came back here, went to Potsdam State, and took some graduate courses. There were some political 
science classes I took with Miles W--. Actually the woman, Laura O’Shaughnessy, from St. Lawrence, was 
teaching at Potsdam State. So those two guys, well Miles didn’t actually help me, but a teacher from the 
alternate college, Herb Douglass, a black guy, the first black teacher that I had ever had, he was a radical 
guy, just really bitter, scorn, mad. We actually became friends, and it was between Herb Douglass and 
Laura O’ Shaughnessy, they got me into graduate school at American University. But I didn’t know what I 
wanted to do, and they said most political science students that don’t know what they want to do for a 
job, they do public administration, and public administration is like a management course at McDonalds. 
It was really disappointing. At that time Phyllis and I were pretty serious, she was in Rochester, my 
father had cancer and was pretty sick, and I decided to come home after spending a semester there. I 
enjoyed it, I thought about become a lawyer, but I guess it was the call of the home. I was probably the 
least likely of any of the 5 boys to come home to farm, but I was also the one that if my father needed 
something, he came and got me. I always thought that I was being punished, but I realize now, after 
having 3 sons, that he came and got me because I knew what I was doing, and he wouldn’t have to 
spend much time once he got through the argument and convinced me though the threat of violence 
that you are going to be doing this. I can realize now, I can take my 3 sons and pick out who is the most 
competent one that is most suitable for certain jobs. Somebody who had figured out that this step is 
because of this step, and that would probably be our oldest son Brandon, he was always right on. The 
second one played clueless, he was smart, but played clueless, it just wasn’t worth to get after him. I 
knew what I was doing and somewhat good at it. The agribusiness that my father had was more of a 
purpose of “what are we doing here” because he sold farm equipment. My father is virtually known 
around St. Lawrence County in the ag. community even though he’s been gone since 1986. We just 
installed so much equipment, and because the line that he sold, PATZ, from Wisconsin, was a really high 
6 
 
quality, very simple equipment, but very durable. There were others, Badger, which Billy Dalton sold. 
We were competitors, but friendly competitors. 
(0:23:12) 
VC: When did the farm become yours? 
KA: We bought the farm in January of 1982. I told my father that I would work for him for a year.  The 
fall of 1980 we had a fire there and wiped out the barn. We didn’t know what we were going to do. 
None of us were coming back to the farm. We had these 4 silos sticking there, we had the insurance 
money and the insurance company expected you to do something with it, I think. My father probably 
wishes—if I was him, I wouldn’t have rebuilt. 
VC: Would not have? 
KA: Would not have. But I think he felt we have this farm here and we are still selling farm equipment, 
and people would like to still see stuff functioning, so we rebuilt it. I spent most of that summer with the 
contractor, with him making decisions. I said I was not coming back, but if I do come back this is how I 
would want it type thing. What I should have done was travel below the thru-way and sees some other 
operations. It would have made a lot better facility because when we moved into it, it was outdated, but 
we are still using it.  
(0:24:49) 
VC: What was the farm like when you came in? 
KA: When we came in in January of 1982, we were milking 100 cows. I told my father I would work for 
him for a year, and after a year I didn’t want to be on wages. If it worked out, I wanted to go in on a 
percentage basis, not necessarily a formal partnership. So we had Production Credit, which is the farm 
credit association that did pretty much a lot of the ag lending in the area. It was people with expertise 
dealing with farmers. Ted Green, an old guy, came up, and set this thing up. So I had 12 cows, and I think 
my parents signed the loan so I could get the 12 establishing credit; they co-signed the loan so I could 
get $12,000 of farm credit to buy 12 cows. My 12 cows would represent 12% of the herd. So the check 
actually came in my name for 12%. We sat down when the bills came, the veterinary, feed bills, and on a 
month basis I wrote out my checks for 12%. My labor went towards the feed and the rental of my share 
of the rent of the buildings. 
(0:26:09) 
VC: Was this all written down? 
KA: Oh, yeah. I must have it somewhere, I have no idea. So then in the second year, 1984, I said I would 
like to do 20%. My father said, “Fine.” I was basically running the farm because he had this equipment 
business. My father and I actually didn’t work very well together. We were both just stubborn. I would 
try to convince him we need to invest in this and that and he would say, “No, we don’t need to do that.” 
7 
 
Then I would buy it. “Oh, yeah, that works pretty good.” So he was easy to convince if you bought it. 
We’re talking about mixing systems where you put the corn silage and ingredients together, and the 
cow takes a bite and it’s uniform and consistent. Stuff like that, new technology, he was helpful. In 1985 
I said, “I would like to buy all the cows.” At that time he hesitated. He has a very good business. We 
convinced him, that this is what we want to do. I am making the decisions, I am the guy that is in the 
barn, and I am still helping you out on the weekends if you need it. So without actually too much 
friction, he agreed to that. Then all the feed that I had worked for, I had to buy again! 
VC: You said he was a good businessman. 
KA: He was a good businessman. I can remember going to an auction where he bought a set of 18 foot 
harvester-disc, and I think he paid $1200 for it; they were kind of loose, and needed some repair, but a 
good heavy set. When we went to sit down to buy the pieces of equipment, he said, “They are worth 
$2500” and I said, “You paid $1200.”  He goes, “You want them or not.”[Laughter] I didn’t get very many 
deals, but looking back I am so fortunate that he had this business because I know people my age now, 
I’m 55, that their father still controls the farm. Well, maybe at age 50 they are just starting to get into 
that. Well across the road, Greg and Linda. I think Jim and Grace still pretty much control everything, I 
think they have a working relationship. There was Leslie that was my age, left there because of that. 
(0:29:02) 
VC: That was the old way of doing things? 
KA: Yes, but it still continues. 
VC: Multiple generations didn’t take control until later. 
KA: I think what happens is that you get up into your 50s and don’t have any equity. You haven’t 
established a line of credit even. So it was a tremendous advantage for me to be making all of the 
decisions because my father was more concerned about the equipment business. 
(0:29:40) 
VC: When did you start to expand? 
KA: We had the 100 cows from 1985 to 1989. We tried bringing in a guy that had some skills, Jim 
Garlough was his name, and tried to do the same thing with him on the percentage basis. He had the 
skills, but didn’t have the temperament. We had one employee at the time, but Jim was a very paranoid 
individual, and it just didn’t work out, and he had financial difficulties. We ended up putting him on a 
salary at that time, which was $19,600, which was pretty decent money. He was worth it, but 
personality wise, it was just a big clash between him and an employee of mine. So we tried that, 
because he definitely had the mental capacity and the fiscal capacity and knew what he was doing. 
VC: Then you started to develop the herd from there? 
8 
 
KA: We continued to grow. You had to grow. Your margins were shrinking. The price of milk that we 
were getting was less and all your expenses, if you wanted to buy new technology, new tractors, cabs 
with air conditioning, wider equipment to get the job done, everything, just like in life, goes up. I think in 
the early 90s we went to milking 3 times a day. At that time we had 144 cows and then moved to 180. It 
was never any set design; we just built barns and just kept adding cows.  
(0:31:48) 
VC: Do you have entirely Holsteins? 
KA: I have some Jerseys. The reason I have Jerseys is because I was buying group of bred heifers, it was 
28 and 10 were Jerseys. If I wanted the Holsteins I had to take the Jerseys. I remember milking Jerseys as 
a 15 year old helping out at Jim Namly’s, and they were the most miserable thing and they didn’t want 
any part of it, but they were fine. Actually with our older barn, the Jerseys fit in the stalls better. We 
started breeding out Holsteins A.I. to Jersey bulls, and buying more Jerseys, to grow into the Jerseys. But 
Jerseys are obstinate.  
VC: I did not know that. 
KA: Oh, yeah. You don’t want a smart cow. When you are trying to head a cow this direction and she 
says, “Listen, that’s ridiculous, I don’t really want to go that way, as a matter of fact, I am going to go 
between you and the wall here and see if I can get some of the Holsteins to follow along.” It just came to 
me, we had this fresh animal, it was a fresh Jersey, she’s like 700 pounds, and she just didn’t not want to 
go in the milking parlor, and was not going to go in the milking parlor. And you just looked at this thing 
and I thought to myself, “Oh, yeah, I remember.” I just told the breeders the next day, no more Jersey 
semen, only Holstein. “Why?” I just had this problem with that gal and it all brought it back to me. We 
actually had to push her in with a skid steer, with a rubber scrapper behind. She was not moving. She 
was fine after that. They are just like certain cows today. They get in trouble. Jerseys can unlock a gate. 
They could be safe crackers if they were humans. They are just into trouble all the time. 
(0:33:50) 
VC: What is your work force? 
KA: Right now we have 4 employees. So we have 2 Lisbon high school graduates and we have 2 
gentlemen from Guatemala. They primarily milk. 
VC: The Guatemalans primarily milk? 
KA: Yes. 
VC: How long have the other 2 been with you? 
KA: Both their names are Jim. Super Jim, the big guy, has been with us for about 8 years, I think. Then JP, 
the other Jim, I think I’ve fired him 3 times and he’s quit twice, but now we just tolerate each other. He 
does a good job, he has a lot of family issues, but I think it impacts his work. 
9 
 
PA: So on and off, he’s probably been with us 6 for years. 
KA: Well the first time he worked for us for 6 years. Maybe like 3, and then we are back again. I think it is 
going to last this time. They are just certain things you just can’t change about somebody. Like Phyllis for 
example [Laughing]. 
(0:35:25) 
VC: So Phyllis, what is your role? 
PA: I do all the book work, I pay all the bills, do all the accounting. I do rake all the hay in the summer, 
and help with other things like bugger tires. 
KA: You have to explain the bugger tires. 
PA: And stone picking.  
KA: Phyllis has driven the tractor, the stone buggy, for 25 years or so. She knows all the wet spots 
around the farm. 
PA: I drove it when it was a dump truck, now I drive the tractor. 
KA: The book work takes a couple days a week, don’t you think? 
PA: It’s a day. 
KA: It’s a full day then tax time. 
PA: Still working on it. That’s what I was doing when you got here. 
(0:36:25) 
VC: So have you worked with the animals at all? 
PA: No. 
KA: Well you’ve done some milking. 
PA: Well, I guess I’ve been where they needed me. I’ve milked some cows before, fed cows before. It’s 
kind of like where ever they need me over the years. I have done a lot of different things, but not a full 
time job outside all the time. 
(0:36:48) 
VC: And your boys? 
KA: Brandon is 25, going to be 26, he works for IBM. He lives in Saratoga Springs. Shawn lives in New 
York and went to Clarkson. Shawn went to Wharton is living in NYC and also works for IBM. Both 
Brandon and Shawn are consultants for IBM. Gavin is our third and youngest son, he’s a junior at 
10 
 
Cornell, and he is doing a double major in business and communications. I actually haven’t heard if he 
got into communications or not. You have to apply, but he should get in. So, nobody is coming back to 
the farm. 
VC: You’re quite sure of that? 
KA: We hope not. Well, you have to look and see. It’s a volume business. So if someone was really 
serious about coming back to the farm, you are talking at least 1,000 cows, with the capacity to move to 
maybe double that. To accumulate the land base and the individuals that have the expertise to micro-
manage different parts of the dairy. So it would be a tremendous amount of money. I think the future is 
bright for Ag, but I think it’s always going to be like it is. Where you have shrinking margins and in order 
to compensate you have to have higher levels of volume, a higher level of management, and there is 
very little if any room for error. They have their weekends off, they have paid holidays, they have a 
benefit package, health care package, and retirement package. There’s been several winters where I 
thought, “I could start handing out basketballs again.” I still have my degree. I think in the last 4 or 5 
years I finally determined that I must be a farmer. Every winter the frustrations of winter; after you 
worked so hard in the summer time, you kind of expect a break. So, sometimes when it gets really cold, 
things compound, the frustration of working with limited employees is a challenge. 
(0:39:18) 
VC: Limited in number or ability? 
KA: Limited in ability. Everyone’s very dependable. They don’t give me any crap at all, but the stuff that 
they miss, that they don’t pick up on, I guess what it is for me, is that I’m not a good teacher, so maybe it 
is a good thing that I am not a teacher. I pick up on things quickly and I guess I think everyone else does, 
too. So I don’t spend the time training and retraining. There’s just different personalities, both Jims are 
in their 40s, they’re not going to change. They’re not going to get any better. They each have their 
strengths—JP, the little guy, he does exceptional job cleaning the barns and keeping things cleans. Then 
the other guy has the knowledge, unfortunately with Jim, he thinks he has all the knowledge, he thinks 
he is Mr. Dairyman. There is a real deficit there. Sometimes what he thinks really impacts your dairy and 
you don’t even know he’s been doing it, until you start talking to a sales person or another individual. At 
the same time, I am grateful to have both of them. Poor Phyllis hears it. 
(0:41:04) 
VC: What are the prospects for finding local men and women to work on farms? 
KA: I don’t want to say that it is next to impossible, but I can’t think of anybody in the circle of people 
that I know that would have the skill set to come in and actually manage and own a dairy, you mean or 
to just work it? 
VC: To be good workers for you? 
11 
 
KA: Everything is getting so technical now, and that the margins are so slim, you can’t make mistakes. So 
you need a fairly sharp individual. You need to find somebody that actually wants to run a farm 
themselves. Those guys are either working their way to get to that farm or they are a herdsperson in a 
position where they have ownership, they get so many calves a year, and when they accumulate enough 
cows, they either want to push you out and take over your operation, which is basically what Cornell 
grooms. They have a dairy fellows thing, and those guys are all super charged and are all piss and 
vinegar, and they could come to your dairy or whatever else, and basically say, “Hey Gramps, see you 
later” type thing. They do have the skills. They have not necessarily put them into effect and haven’t 
made their mistakes, because a lot of them make their mistakes and fall out of the business. They find 
out what they learned in the classroom is applicable, but I can’t apply it, or it just didn’t work out. There 
have been people that have done that. In our size of operation, which is a difficult size, we are about at 
800 head here now, about 400 cows, so we are milking about 330. So it’s hard to find somebody that 
would be willing to come in, look at this operation as something that they would actually want to move 
into because the places that they’ve worked before have your double 20 milking parlor, these multi-
million dollar complexes and different systems. This is a 1981 barn that was out of date when we moved 
into it, yet we have beautiful land. We made it beautiful land; we actually have very good heifer 
facilities. You are going to need to find somebody whose expectations aren’t quite so high to milking 
thousands and thousands of cows. Somebody who can come in and say, “Hey I can do 3, 400 cows and 
work my way into this.” So I think at some point in time, we’ve talked about this, is that, by the age of 60 
we would like to have somebody in place if it is going to be a dairy. If I did, then I could continue on 
cropping and doing that at a reduced capacity and still be happy doing another 10 years easy. As far as 
working up here in the North Country is beautiful in the summer time, and is beautiful in the winter 
time, too. It’s hard; people don’t have the skill set. 
PA: There are less people that have a farm background than there used to be. If you look at my parents, 
they all grew up on farm. Kevin’s family, my family. I am involved in farming and have a brother that 
does some farming as a side line to a regular job, but Kevin is the only one out of 10 kids in his family. 
Now you look at our kids, and farming is not going to be their thing. That ends that generation. There’s 
less people to even pull from anymore with farm backgrounds. 
(0:45:14) 
KA: The Hargraves have been around for 200 years. This is the end of the line. It’s not a big for me as far 
as we moved here from Canada; I am a first generation American here. Am I attached to the land? 
Certainly, I have a lot of sweat equity, a lot of hard work here.  So I’d hate to see it go to somebody and 
have them wreck it. 
(0:45:49) 
VC: Is there potential for this farm to be bigger than it is? 
KA: We’ve passed up on some land purchases, but we always wanted to make it so you could milk 500 
cows here and have that option to attract somebody in and say, “Hey, I can take what you got here and 
put a new facility out back here for milking the cows and housing the dairy cattle.” That could still 
12 
 
happen. We have 600 acres, and we can grow pretty good crops, the land is pretty decent. The land is 
tile drained and we’ve made big fields. But I don’t think that is adequate now, 500 cows is not adequate. 
I think it is going to be big. Don’t get me wrong, you can make 50 cows, because the man power is still 
one man for 50 cows practically. We are a lot higher than that, we have more cows, but still that 
standard hasn’t changed that much. It hasn’t gone from one man managing 100 cows. The Fishers have 
40 employees—Max and Barb Fisher. The Cruikshanks have 90 employees, they milk 3000 cows. Dr. Bob 
Cruickshank. They used to be part of the animal—Spears and Cruickshank; they used to be part of a 
small animal clinic. They had a small animal clinic in Canton, with Dr. Dave Spears, plus they had an 
office in Ogdensburg with the school board president in Heuvelton, Jack Zeh. So they disbanded and the 
woman who bought Dr. Spears, part of the operation has the animal clinic out of 68 there.  
(0:48:04) 
VC: So Cruickshank, is that an old farm? 
KA: Well Bob’s brother, Al, always milked 150 cows. Bob always had his vet business, and that is all he 
did. I think he got interested in registered animals and doing embryo transfers and stuff like that, and he 
still does that. All of a sudden in the last 10 years they got into it and started buying farms—rapid, rapid, 
rapid expansion. They brought in a son-in-law, who was an engineer, no dairy background at all. So they 
are having growing pains and figuring it out. They do a nice job, but everything is all over the place. The 
animals are 15, 20 miles away. It would have to be difficult. I think you got 90 employees, they don’t 
know everybody’s name, and I’m certain if you want to hide out for the day, you can. That is not for me. 
There’re certain efficiencies. If you talk to John Greenwood, John has expanded, I think he milks 1200. I 
said 1000 cows is the idea Sally. He goes, “Yeah, when I had just the one barn, but now that I doubled 
the size of the operation, now all that I do is paperwork because I can’t farm.” You can’t get behind a 
tractor as much, you can do certain things, and you become more of a paper shuffler, versus when he 
had the 800 cows.  
(0:50:00) 
VC: You mentioned your Guatemalan workers; how did you set that up, how did that come about? 
KA: Phyllis and I went out for our 25th wedding anniversary and when we came back the guy that was 
supposed to be milking in the afternoon wasn’t here. So for our 25th wedding anniversary Phyllis milked 
cows by herself while I fed. I think the year before that we had gone through 8 individuals in a year’s 
time. Local guys—and I am not a hard guy to actually work for. They might tell you different, but if you 
show up on time, don’t abuse the cows, follow procedures, it’s a pretty easy job. Things are going to 
happen, just do the job, be good to the cows, and do the steps you are supposed to do…and you just 
can’t get them here: car trouble, girlfriend trouble, drug problems, work ethic, sex offenders, it’s the 
bottom of the barrel.  I knew that this individual Levi, was our first guy, he had come to the country, his 
brother had worked next door, his brother was an excellent employee. We didn’t have any housing, we 
didn’t have anything for them, but I was so angry and called up Greg and said, “Where’s that brother?” 
He was actually working on a different farm, but wanted to be close to his brother. So we had him 
within a week, even shorter than that, a couple of days. He actually lived at Hargraves for a year until we 
13 
 
actually built that, you can see right there. It’s modeled after a two bedroom, it’s brand new, it has 
radiant heat, blown insulation, tile floors, and it’s got $40,000 in it. 
(0:52:04) 
VC: Better living conditions than he’s know before, I suspect? 
KA: Yes. We joke around now. Phyllis will be in the kitchen. “Is Moses here yet, did he drive in yet?” It’s 
just a joke, because it’s so relaxing because they are here. We could not put up housing for those 
individuals that we previously hired and expect them to be here, even if the house was right out here. 
Plus their friends, the people that they associated with, we don’t want that. 
PA: They were supposed to be here at 4:30 in the morning and Kevin would send me to pick them up, he 
would be a couple miles away still in bed. I’d go get him, he’d still be drunk. I mean this is probably 1 of 8 
or 10 that year. 
KA: We could write a book, but probably nobody could believe it. One of the final straws, too, we had 
this guy, we had a woman milking for us and she was young and complaining about back trouble, and 
we said, “Here we go, disability claim.” But she had a cousin, and he came here, and he was working, 
and he was a great worker. Nice guy, he was probably only here a couple weeks. So one of the dirtiest 
jobs is after you finish the harvest you put the plastic over the silage to keep the air out and you put the 
tires on it. It’s a dirty job and if you get water on the tires it’s flying around, stagnant stale water, and 
you’re placing it just so to keep all the air out because you have a fortune, literally ¼ to ½ a million 
dollars of feed underneath that so you don’t want it spoiling. So he’s doing a great job. You give 
everybody some extra money to go do whatever they want to do. So I’m walking and see the Sherriff in 
the driveway and I kept right on walking into the house. So the next morning I say to one of his friends 
Will, “What was the Sherriff doing here?” “Such and such is a level 3 sex offender, then he had moved 
from Gouverneur to Madrid and didn’t notify them that he had moved, but I don’t see what the trouble 
is because his sister dropped the charges.” [Laughter].The next day I go out and this guy is milking for us 
and he’s only been here an hour and half, but has only completed about 45 minutes of work. I said, 
“What’s the matter?” He goes, “I am looking under here and I’m only seeing 2 teats instead of 4.” So I go 
in and get Phyllis out, and I say Phyllis, “Can you go out and help this guy finish up because I can’t do 
anything until I get done feeding the cows.” So she milked with this guy for about an hour or an hour 
and a half until I get the cows fed. I said, “Steve, why don’t you go home.” They guy actually stopped 
here last summer, I hardly recognized him. “Hey, how you doing?” He said he had a baby girl now, but 
his girlfriend had taken off with the kid and he was going to see if he could get her back. 
PA: Their stories are long. 
KA: Would you like some ice tea or water, help yourselves. That was a long winded answer to your 
question. 
(0:56:59) 
VC: Have you had a good experience with your migrant workers? 
14 
 
KA: Yes, very good. Levi is an outstanding employee. You tell him this is how you want the cows, the 
cows come in, you take out 3 or 4 samples to check for bad milk, it actually stimulates let down, and you 
dip them, and you wipe them. You don’t do it all at once, you strip, you come back, and it’s just factory 
work. You can go in there any time of the day that he is milking and he is following procedure. The cows 
are so much quieter than when we had the local guys milking them. They are just good with the cows.  
VC: Had he ever done any of that work prior? 
KA: No, no. His brother, who is no longer over here, is quite skilled. His family is fairly well educated. I 
know he has two sisters that are nurses. His father is not living, and he sends most of his money home. 
VC: How old is Levi? 
KA: Maybe 25. 
VC: He’s quite young. 
KA: He got here pretty young. He’s been here 4 years. 
(0:58:27) 
VC: What is the other guy’s name? 
KA: Lewis. They’re not related, but I actually think they are from the same township. Lewis has been in 
America a lot longer, much more Americanized. So there’re some problems there with him. He does the 
job, but Little Jim, he yanks his chain. He leaves gates closed on him on purpose, or open on purpose 
and stuff like that. I don’t know if Lewis is all together there actually. He is one of those hypochondriac 
type guys, too. He insists on teaching you Spanish. He understands English for the most, but I don’t think 
he can speak very much. He is insistent that you learn Spanish. 
VC: So he can’t or doesn’t try to communicate with you? 
KA: We’ve had the migrant education coordinators here and for Levi, it is very important that he learn 
English. They know that it is a step for improvement. Lewis, is, I don’t know, I don’t know if he wants to 
go home, you never hear him talk about his family. If you talk to Levi about his family, it is just a huge 
grin. 
VC: Does he go back home? 
KA: No, they have never gone back. I guess it is unusual that they have stayed in one place. I think Levi 
has been here 4 years. One has been here one year less than the other. 
(1:00:47) 
VC: Hannah, you have been to Guatemala, right? 
HH: Yes. 
15 
 
KA: The city that is close to him begins with a “Q.” 
HH: Quetzaltenango. 
KA: Yes. So they are from, not in the mountains, but half way up. So the cool climate is normal to them. 
HH: Not this cold. 
KA: Yes, not this cold. 
HH: But cool. 
KA: They don’t have snow, but like November, is like home. Levi sends probably twice as much money to 
home. 
PA: No. 
KA: Oh, no, does Lewis do better? 
PA: Well, for a while Lewis didn’t send as much. They send most of the money. 
HH: Do you help them do it, or do they do it through you somehow? 
KA: Phyllis does it. 
(1:01:40) 
VC: Have you had any interest to visit them in Guatemala? 
KA: Oh, I’d love too, but the reality is, we can’t get off the farm with level of management we have. 
PA: We’ve only had one vacation since we got married. 
VC: Is that right? 
PA: As a family. We took the kids to Disney. 
KA: I don’t think that is a normal thing. I know other farmers take them. 
VC: Dave McKnight, I think they have a camp. 
KA: Dave is different though. I know Dave well, his brother Bob was over here. Dave was unusual how he 
farmed. He never raised any animals, so they just milked cows and bought bred heifers, sold all the 
calves. Had 2 or 3 guys there, so if he took off some place, whatever bull calf hit the ground, those guys 
got the money for, this helped, and he paid them quite well. He had 2 or 3 good men there, grew 
primarily corn silage and just ran a couple hundred cows. I remember meeting some guy that worked for 
him, he goes, “There’s the parlor, you ever milked cows?” “Nope.” “There’s the parlor, you better go to 
it.” He never gave any explanation or anything. Dave has been retired for quite some time. 
16 
 
VC: He’s not well now either. 
KA: Oh really. The last time we saw him, I didn’t think he was well either. They live in Florida I think. 
VC: I think so, they come up for a little bit in the summer. 
KA: It was amazing to me to see how long he was able to do it. He must have done it into his late 50s 
when he got out of the business. 
(1:03:38) 
VC: Hannah, can you think of anything you would like to ask. 
HH: Can you just talk about the basic division labor on the farm. What are your main responsibilities? 
KA: I feed 6 days a week. I feed all 800 head in the morning, plus the calves. We have automation, we 
have it set up simple, so that it is not a lot of physical work, it’s time. My day starts, boots on the ground 
at 5:00. They are milking at 4:00. It takes me about 5:00 to 8:30 to feed all the calves, knock down 
enough feed for the day and then to feed the 800 head. At 8:30 I have fed 50 calves and 800 head of 
cattle and try to get in to milk the fresh cows. There are 44 in there today. They aren’t only just fresh 
cows, but cows that are maybe a little bit lame, or special needs, or large bags that if I stick them out in 
a group of 90 they will lose production, they will lose body weight. I can keep them there on the stand-
free stalls more comfortable, less waiting time to be milked, because it only takes about ½ hour or so to 
milk those 40 cows. It allows me to see the animals that are most likely to have a problem, like I said 
earlier, are the fresh cows. That is where your spikes in temperature, they are not feeling well, they’ve 
lost a lot of fluid through giving birth and that kind of thing. That is my level of management. I was a 
good dairy farmer when I was milking my own cows. I knew they were sick 3 days before they got sick. 
When you milk 300 head 3 times a day you can’t do that. So, for me as our operation has grown, I was  a 
much better manager of cows up to 180 cows until we went to 3 times a day milking and had another 
employee milking cows. But I don’t want to milk 330 cows myself either. If I can get in there, it is really 
that critical after they have given birth, that critical 2 week period. 
HH: Those are the cows you are calling the fresh cows? 
KA: Yes, fresh means giving birth. Dry means they have milked 2 months before they are due to calve 
again. It’s a rest period that gives a chance for the cells in the utter to regenerate basically. So that is my 
part of the management and then usually I will have some duties with the other guys. A lot of times it is 
me repairing what they have run over or damaged or something. There’s lots of things to do. Today we 
dried off 7 cows. Then we moved basically all the heifers. We took bred heifers which were making 
utter, moved them in with the dry cows so they started consuming that ration. Then we took animals 
that were short bred and moved them in with the bred heifers. We just kept moving 15, 20 animals all 
the way through these 3 different stages. We were actually dehorning. We had 10 calves to wean off, 
that were on milk. We wean off at 7 to 10 weeks of age. They usually double their birth weight in that 
time period. So that is what we have for our management, somewhere between 7 and 8 weeks that we 
take them off milk and they eat a purchased grain, a pellet with minerals, protein and energy all in a 
17 
 
pellet. Then they start consuming haylage products and stuff. We don’t have any actual dry hay for 
them. They also go into groups of 10. That has been proven to be the optimal size, 8 to 10 calves 
socially. Anything more than that, someone gets bullied. They like to do them in even numbers. It’s 
nothing I can notice, but researchers notice that weaning these calves off in groups of 2 because 
everybody picks up a buddy. And you will see it as cows calve and are freshened, you will see them 
when they come in the milking parlor. 316 will always be with 317. The Jerseys will all hang out 
together; I will call them all racists. They are always hanging out on the corner, all 10 of them. They do, 
they push the Holsteins around, and nobody messes with the Jerseys.  
VC: You have this thing about Jerseys. 
KA: I like the looks of them, they’re nice. That’s my duties—feed. That is my level of management as far 
as what I can do and what works for us. That is the everyday stuff. 
PA: You do all the crops. 
KA: I plant all the corn. I cut most of the hay. Phyllis rakes the hay. We are actually putting windrows 
together, 3 windrows into 1. I have an individual that runs the forage harvester, a retired gentleman that 
used to work for my father. He is 67, so he is getting to where he wants to slow down. Last year, out of 
the 4 cuts, I actually did 2 of them. He is the kind of employee that did 4 years in the Navy and he is real 
neat and meticulous and I actually really need him to run this $300,000 piece of equipment because he 
takes good care of it. I don’t have time to take care of it because I got all this other stuff going on. I 
decide on the cropping rotation, the program, that kind of thing. I’m kind of doing a lot of it. If you ask 
Super Jim, he’ll tell you he does it all. 
(1:10:47) 
VC: Clark mentioned there is little tillable land in Stockholm. Is the land better here? 
KA: I am not familiar with his land, but the Madrid, Canton, Lisbon area is the best land. If you look at 
soil maps in New York State for the North Country, these are the townships, as you can see we are the 
farms that are thriving, and that is where the good land is. It’s not only management, which is a huge 
part of it, because you can lose your shirt on this ground. We started out with very average ground, and 
now we have good ground. There is good land over here, but it is very competitive now. The Hargraves, 
they are milking 400, so they are actually bigger than I am. So we got Jon Greenwood who probably has 
2000 head and comes within 3 miles. If you stood up and looked out the window you could see Dave 
Fisher’s farm, they are milking 2000 cows every day. They have over 2000 acres, almost 3000 acres 
between Brenna and Stockholm. We actually share hedgerows. Then we have the Cruikshanks, and 
they’re in Woodcrest, they’re farming right up here. The Chesters have 500 cows. In this area, it is very 
competitive. The McKnights are all over, they’re milking 1500, 1600, or something like that. All the land, 
which has really driven this thing, is that crazy ethanol policy. Ethanol has taken 40% of the corn ground, 
which is great for the farmers out in the Midwest. They became instant millionaires; they went from $2 
a bushel to $7 and $8.  
18 
 
(1:13:07) 
VC: Is that subsidy? 
KA: Well the subsidies are actually gone now. That is the tariff of 54 cents a gallon to keep the sugar 
cane ethanol from Brazil from coming into this country. Then there is a blending credit of 50 something. 
It worked out so they could spend, they meaning the ethanol distillery, what do you call them, factories 
or whatever, or mills, could spend $1.60 per bushel higher. You used to be able to buy corn for 
$2/bushel, so the fact that they can pay $1.60 more. Anyway, those subsidies they said, “Yeah, yeah, 
yeah. We can lose those, we’ll give them up.” Actually when the corn went up high the first time, a lot of 
those ethanol plants went under. Who bought them? Exxon. They all bought them for 10 cents on the 
dollar. Farmer co-ops owned them, too. If you were one of the earliest guys in this ethanol thing, you 
would have made 600% of your money because it was a government driven market. This market would 
not be there. The reason that Brazil has ethanol is because back in the 1970s when they had that OPEC 
strike, they said they weren’t going to let this happen again and were going to produce their own fuel. 
So they are virtually all ethanol. So now it’s still a factor because even though the tax incentives are 
gone, the mandates are still there. Actually the fuel companies have found out, “Hey, we can raise the 
octane in our gasoline pretty cheaply by adding ethanol.” So, from an environmental standpoint, all this 
additional ground, which was maybe marginal, maybe in conservation reserve set aside for pheasants 
and stuff because it really wasn’t the greatest of soil anyway, is back now in row crop production, near 
the water table, using more water, herbicides, pesticides, even though they are doing a good job 
environmentally, it is still a load. All of this corn is being produced for what? So you can have less miles 
per gallon in your car. You can’t pipe the stuff it is so corrosive, you have to chuck it. Just the impact of 
the Fulton plant right there is 100 ton a day, 100 ton of grain a day. So the impact for me is, I went from 
paying $100 a ton for cornmeal, I got a good deal the other day, I think it was $387, or $287, $287, I 
don’t know. Soybean went from $200 to $600. So supposedly we are at the end, but of course last year 
was the drought. The greatest number, 90 million acres planted, and supposedly, that much or more will 
be planted again. Now we are actually at an international market.  Brazil, Argentina and everything else 
will come on. Like China said this year, “Ah, your soybeans are too high, we’re cancelling a couple of 
orders.” So for us as dairy farmers, we are getting a little bit of pressure off. They guys that are actually 
doing really well, because milk prices are way up, are the guys that are growing their own grain, but 
before it wasn’t worth it. So to say we are at the end of this 5 year cycle where that corn is supposed to 
really drop off because people have tried to find alternatives or feed less. The beef herd has been 
decimated. If you like beef, you are going to pay. It takes about 5 years to build that back up again. That 
is an advantage for us as dairy guys because our milk cows are actually bringing pretty good money. But 
it’s a double whammy, especially like in 2009 when the recession hit. Exports went down 46%, so we 
had a lot of milk in the country, but it was leaving the country through exports, which increased by 35%. 
So they went down 42%, so all that milk was here, and then we still get hit with the ethanol, the prices 
and the feed. So, farm credit back in 2009 estimates that 25% of the farms have been irreparably 
harmed here in New York State. You can see it around here. Just drive around, look at the farm. They are 
gone or they are run down. 50-cow dairies are gone. Phyllis’s brother Clark works for the farm service 
agency and they have the MILC Program, which is a subsidy program, which is paid for by the taxpayers. 
19 
 
I argue if they didn’t have it, it would come from the marketplace. Since you guys are paying for it, the 
processors aren’t paying for it. It is only based on the first 2.5 million pounds you produce. [Discussion 
between HH and VC about the fact that recorder is almost full]. So they have that subsidy. So we lost 
that market, our price went down to 10 or 11 dollars, and we got hit with those high feed prices. 
Devastated. Guys, big dairies, it doesn’t matter what size either, 1000 cows dairies were borrowing $100 
a cow per month. So at the end of the year we were at a Farm Bureau State annual meeting, and a guy 
was talking to Jon Greenwood and myself, he says, “I don’t think I did so bad, I only borrowed 
$700,000.” So he only borrowed $700,000, so for 7 months, he borrowed $100,000 a month. And Jon’s a 
really good producer and I am just a tightwad; I didn’t borrow any money, and Jon does a good job and 
didn’t borrow any money. The both of us, we don’t do anything different from a day to day standpoint 
no matter what the price is. I always try to produce an inexpensive product. I am always watching, even 
to this day, even though I have been making these steps for 50-something years. [Recording ends 
abruptly]