Page 1 of 6 
 
Interviewee: Margaret (Peg) Rauschenberger 
Date: 9/11/2018 
Interviewer: Charitie V. Hyman 
Location: Alverno College, Milwaukee, WI 
File Name: afc2018032_04960_ms01 
Background Noise:  
 
Summary of Interview: Peg Rauschenberger, from Milwaukee, WI, talks about her early 
experience as an activist for peace and women’s rights in the 1970s and how this interest 
eventually brought her into nursing. She talks about working in home health and cardiology 
before moving to psychiatric nursing. She describes some of the barriers for patients with mental 
health needs such as stigma, unconscious bias, and insurance. While she teaches nursing students 
at Alverno College, an all-women’s college in Wisconsin, she continues to work in nursing 
providing psychiatric services within the corrections and detention system.  
 
Time 
Content Description 
0.00.00 
Introduction 
0.00.22 
She is from Milwaukee, WI, but lived in various states/cities before returning to 
the city and beginning her nursing career in Milwaukee. She went to Alverno 
College as an undergraduate and then on to Marquette University for graduate 
school. 
0.01.10 
She didn’t have any specific memory of deciding to go into nursing, “It wasn’t 
something I aspired to growing up.” She liked science and math in school. Grew 
up in the 1960s, “It was a different time then. At that point, a career wasn’t my 
ultimate goal. It was much more, at the time what I thought was altruistic, war 
protesting, women’s rights, things like that. So, I did travel around a lot doing 
protests in Washington, in New York, and Chicago, and even here in Milwaukee, 
of course. I wasn’t thinking about, ‘Oh, I want to be a nurse.’ I was thinking about 
changing the world [laughs] and peace and love and all of that and women’s 
rights. I’m making light-hearted of it, but it was very serious to me. Some of that 
has carried through into my career, that social justice commitment. So, when we 
talk more about how I got into mental health, I think there is a big piece of that.”  
0.02.54 
She got married and had taken a few college courses but didn’t focus on a degree. 
She had a child and decided she wanted more out of her life. Went to a workshop 
at Alverno for women thinking about going back to school, Alverno  is an all-
women’s college. This was in the ‘70s and sisters at college were “very 
progressive and feminist.”  
0.03.50 
She decided on nursing because it incorporated science, which she liked, but “it 
also was helping those vulnerable people. It was a perfect fit.” She completed 
nursing school at Alverno as an older student; she immediately started taking 
courses for graduate degree. 
0.04.23 
“I always tell people that starting out as a nurse, I tell my students this, I never 
applied for a job. It was all the networking. Someone you know—there’s a place 
here, that’s doing this, and I might be interested. As a nurse, honestly, I have 
never gone somewhere and said, ‘I want to work for you’ and filled out an 
application.” Describes that as being a little unusual.  
Page 2 of 6 
 
0.05.14 
“I didn’t set out to become a mental health nurse.” She had a formative 
experience in home care; she liked going into people’s homes to provide care; 
“Someplace where they had the power. Even though, as nurses, we try not to 
think that we have power. We want to empower our patients, but any time you’re 
in a hospital, you’re sort of at the mercy of the institution, and I loved going into 
people’s homes and letting them create the healing environment.” A bit part of it 
for her was building “psych-social relationships,” therapeutic relationships.  
0.06.31 
She then had a friend who introduced her to acute care, ICU {intensive care unit}; 
she told  Peg it was “exciting and fun” and she was interested in getting hospital 
experience, so she became a cardiac care nurse and did that for quite a while. She 
enjoyed heart care. 
0.07.36 
“I really liked helping people to deal with the emotional ramifications of a 
diagnosis. She became a good teacher on how to live with illness, how it affects 
the person and their family. Then a home care colleague reached out to her who 
was the director of nursing at a psychiatric hospital. This colleague had said, ‘I 
know you understand about care delivery models and we need some help here, so 
could you come work for me revamping how care is delivered at the hospital.’  
0.08.42 
She explains what “care delivery model” means. In psychiatric hospitals, a lot of 
the care delivery was designed by social workers, psychologists. Hospitals are 
regulated by the Joint Commission, which stipulates that nurses should manage 
and facilitate the care of the patients. “They’d probably fall over dead that I said it 
like that”—she states she is oversimplifying. Agreed to help transition this 
psychiatric hospital where her friend worked because at the time nurses there only 
gave medications.  
0:10:06 
She left ICU to work at the psychiatric hospital, “Not thinking that I would get so 
hooked on the mental health care.” She stayed working there for a while. She 
learned more than she had during education “about the vulnerability of people 
with mental illness, about their needs, about the lack of resources, about the lack 
of access, about all the issues. I may have known it intellectually, but it became so 
real to me, about what they were all dealing with. And then one on one with 
patients personally, how the mental health, how the stigma, how all of that 
affected them every moment of their lives. It was very hard to escape that for so 
many of them.”  
0.11.27 
She moved up the ranks and became Vice Presidents of the hospital in charge of 
all patient care services. She created various programs, including a geriatric 
psychiatric unit. It was a faith-based hospital in Milwaukee. There was a unit for 
clergy who were sexual abusers, which was difficult for them to set up. Things 
were changing in psychiatric care at this time.  
0.12.38 
“When I first started, someone in an eating disorder unit, for instance, would be 
there for three months … It became ‘who is going to pay for that.’” Hospitals 
stays then became shorter. The hospital she was at was having a hard financial 
time and it was sold to a bigger hospital system.  
0.13.39 
Charitie asks about differences between nursing in the home versus in the 
hospital.  
0.14.02 
In the home, nurses really developed relationships with those patients because 
they might be going twice a week for months. The nurses also develop close 
Page 3 of 6 
 
relationships with the families and learn about their lives. The ICU was very 
different; nurses try to establish the same relationships but “in a snapshot of 
time.” She learned to balance medical and therapeutic needs. “It called on some 
different personal skills and interaction style skills.” In the psychiatric hospital, 
the stays were a bit longer than ICU, so had more time to develop those 
relationships. “When dealing with mental health issues, you don’t have all your 
machines and laboratory tests and all of those things to rely on to help you 
understand what is happening inside someone. I’m not judging your potassium 
level … It’s much more of a pure interaction kind of relationship. It is 
establishing that relationship that will help you get to the ultimate patient outcome 
that you are aiming for.”  
0.16.35 
She felt that psychiatric care was similar to some of the things in home care. In 
the ICU, things could be instantaneous, dealing with life or death. There was a 
slower pace on the psychiatric unit. She found the child unit to be the most 
difficult where they could be very young and horribly abused. She found it hard to 
maintain professional boundaries especially as a mother. It was very emotional. 
She liked the teenagers; they are so difficult, but so are normal teenagers. 
0.18.52 
The hospital got sold and then she moved on to be the administrator of a home 
care agency that did mental health home care. Reimbursement (from insurance) 
was a big part of that job. She states that normally health insurance does not cover 
home care for mental health, because they are not home bound in the typical 
sense. Medicaid had a special program through the state to help keep these 
patients out of the hospital because it was cheaper in the long run. These were 
chronically and severally mentally ill. She set up medications, set up 
appointments, took them to appointments. Briefly, the program also did care for 
the homeless. There was some Medicare fraud and Peg quit.  
0.21.42 
She became friends with a woman who told her about the Milwaukee County 
Juvenile Detention Center—adolescent jail (not the mental health complex). The 
program did not have mental health services for inmates who are aged 10-17. This 
woman told Peg about grant to provide mental health services; they wrote the 
grant together. This was around 1992. They got the money and decided to provide 
psychiatric nursing services rather than other mental health professions, “because 
of the holistic view of nursing and the ability to monitor medication management, 
the understanding of the actions of meds, and all of that.”  
0.24.14 
She describes the program and insurance administration of adolescent programs in 
the jail system, and how medications are covered or not covered. The parents 
bring the inmates’ medications if there was a prescription, but the program 
couldn’t get new medications ordered (only if parents even had insurance). There 
were often issues with contacting parents and getting them to bring the 
medications related to socio-economic factors.  
0.26.37 
The grant was renewed for several years; then the county contracted services for 
the facility. Peg still works there despite also being a full-time faculty member at 
Alverno College. Nurses provide 80 hours of care to the youth (per week). Nurses 
provide the only mental health services there still. She talks about how policy and 
government can “truly affect health, especially mental health since it still isn’t 
looked on the same as if you were diabetic. They are both health issues.”  
Page 4 of 6 
 
0.28.31 
Charitie asks about stigma. “Do you think that [stigma] affects nurses?” “I think it 
affects healthcare in general. I think the nurses who go into mental health go in 
because they understand that and want to change that. Nurses who go into mental 
health are very dedicated to this … Well, nurses in general, I must say … Mental 
health nurses really understand the battles that these folks face internally and 
externally.” Stigma affects other people in healthcare, emergency room for 
instance. Someone with a heart attack versus being suicidal gets treated 
differently. They have “unconscious bias toward people like alcoholics, drug 
addicts, people who frequent emergency rooms because of their mental illness.”   
0.31.00 
Also, she can understand some of the issues that affect staff in the emergency 
room, can see if from both perspectives. There are issues of access and 
admissions; patients might not be able to get an appointment in mental health for 
6 months. “That’s where the whole social justice commitment on my part gets 
irate, but then how many physicians want to be psychiatrists? There’s a shortage.” 
Peg started a psychiatric nurse practitioner program at Alverno. When it started, 
there were only about 16 psych NPs in whole state. “We truly believe that nurses 
have a more holistic view of patients than maybe some other professions. That’s 
not a criticism, it’s just that nursing education is different from medical 
education.”  
 
0.33.20 
“Nursing is an art and a science. You really have to know all your science, you 
have to know your medical stuff, but there is so much more to being a nurse. That 
art of becoming that trusted person.” Nurses spend more time at patients’ sides, 
especially in hospital settings. Human connections are very important to nurses 
and especially in mental health, “because that is the only tool you have.”  
0.34.42 
“I’ve always been a person who connects to people.” This skill has helped her as a 
nurse and in leadership roles. At the same time, Alverno College is ability-based; 
it is ungraded. It is not pass/fail, the school has many criteria to be met—in this 
way, the students can learn some of those skills about connecting to people. She 
had innate ability, but also various models theory, and training from Alverno. She 
talks about communicating empathy, as opposed to sympathy or pity, to patients. 
0.37.40 
When she teaches mental health nursing, she emphasizes to students how 
frightened some patients may be from paranoia or delusions; these thoughts are 
very real to those patients. “You need to exhibit some real empathy for what 
they’re going through.”  
0.38.30 
Charitie asks her if she has any specific memories or stories that brought that idea 
of empathy home to her. 
0.38.42 
She talks about one particular patient she worked with in home care for the 
mentally ill. Describes changes in institutionalization, communities weren’t ready 
to care for these patients and they were in “inner city rooming houses.” The man 
she remembers was scared, was paranoid, but was also in bad circumstances. “I 
could see in him the physical fear. It was just pouring off him. How do you even 
approach and sooth when you’re going to walk away in an hour and leave him?” 
Describes how she tried to communicate with him and help him. “No human 
being should feel that way.”  
0.42.16 
“When you’ve been a nurse for a long time, especially if you stay in one 
environment, sometimes you get a little rote in what you do. And maybe you 
Page 5 of 6 
 
don’t always believe what the patient tells you. That’s not to say, patients do lie to 
you … They’re trying to get their needs met … but what I take away is that until I 
have reason not to, I am going to believe everything they tell me about how 
they’re feeling, about what physically they’re feeling, what emotionally they’re 
feeling, what’s going around on them … I think they can feel that. I validate … I 
don’t see the bugs crawling on the wall, but I absolutely believe that you do.” 
“That empathy, I just can’t let it get stale.”  
0.44.24 
Can get jaded when working in corrections, in the jail. She talks more about the 
detention center and community support programs to assist people and programs 
that try to work with both teens and their families in the Milwaukee area. Peg 
describes a series of news articles written by a journalist, how mental health 
affects family members. Educating the family on what is or is not their 
responsibility.   
0.46.44 
She talks about stereotypes of the field, people asking if the job is scary. “It’s not 
as scary as people assume it is.” The locks unit are usually for the patients’ own 
safety, not because they are out to hurt people. She talks more about stigma, “That 
whole public perception that just because you are different you are scary.” 
Charitie asks how Peg educates students about stigma. “They like to think they’re 
open-minded. It’s our job … each and every one of us have biases about all sorts 
of things, that’s just human. It’s identifying ‘why did that make me feel 
uncomfortable?’ and doing some self-assessment … Not everyone is cut out to be 
a mental health nurse … You have to identify where you can be most effective. 
But what I tell students, no matter where you work, you are going to run into 
people with mental health issues. They have heart attacks, they go to clinics, so 
how can you learn your best interaction styles and assessment skills to figure out 
if they need instant help or not.” Talks more about students and some of their 
initial reactions to acute care mental health patients.  
0.49.53 
She doesn’t do hands-on mentoring anymore, she is more involved in 
administration, but does visit all the sites. “I like to see the students in action.”  
0.50.11 
After she worked at the detention center for a while, a friend of hers asked her to 
start teaching. She became more interested in building, not her own career, but the 
future of care. Interested in mentoring programs that will meet the needs of local 
and global communities. She’s taught at Alverno for 22 years, but initially didn’t 
think she would be teaching long-term. She always had other nursing jobs. “The 
passion is for nursing in general, but if you were going to ask, what is the 
population that lives in my heart, it is the mentally ill. I never set out to do that, I 
just happened upon it.”  
0.52.30 
She talks a bit about retirement and continuing to work in the field, working with 
the patients directly. She describes how her relationship with adolescents has 
changed as she’s grown older.  
0.54.10 
“We are not where we need to be yet.” [pounds on desk as she says this] This is 
what motivates her to stay in the field. She is certified to do jailor education; 
interested in getting more people engaged in treatment rather than apathetic to the 
mentally ill. “I can continue to be a voice for better access, better services, more 
resources, changing community attitudes.”  Social justice.  
Page 6 of 6 
 
0.55.59 
What advice would she give to students? “Don’t hesitate to take risks, ever.” 
Specifically, for mental health, her advice is “We need you. We need people who 
have that passion.” But go in for the right reasons, maybe not just because you are 
looking for answers to your own needs. “Overall, go for it! It is the most 
rewarding when you see someone coming out the other side. It’s almost more 
rewarding than seeing someone recovering from a heart attack because the 
struggle is so huge, so the reward, as a nurse, if you have any part in that, you can 
go home and go ‘I had a great day!’”  
0.58.18 
Describes one patient in particular who she had that experience with (of 
recovery). Worked with a patient who was so mentally ill that she thought he 
would die, even though there was nothing physically wrong, he was “so deep into 
his mental illness.” She describes sitting by his bed and talking to him, reassuring 
him. Weeks later, he began to recover, “He said to me, ‘I can still hear your 
voice.’” “It was just that constant connection of my voice, being soothing” [she 
lowers her voice]. Human and personal connections with people.  
1.00.40 
Starting to wrap up the interview. “It’s such an inexact science … that maybe 
sometimes the rewards seem greater than being able to read an EKG. I wish there 
were more nurses who really enjoyed it. I think they need to open their horizons 
and try.” She talks a bit about nursing environments and why nurses might not 
want to work in a particular place; for example, lack of funding, lack of staffing. 
She describes issues that come from being understaffed. Some other issues may 
be insurance and length of stays (that have become shorter over time).  
1.04.20 
Any last advice? “Get active! … Nurses need to find their voice. The AMA [for 
doctors] has a voice, but why aren’t nurses more organized, she asks, to influence 
communities, policy, governments, etc. [hitting the desk for emphasis]. “Nurses 
need to look on this not just as a job, it’s a profession. If we are going to have our 
profession help change the health of our communities, we have to find our voice.”  
 
Talks about how nurses can make change in their own hospital, job location. 
“You gotta start from where you are … You can be a leader no matter what your 
role … You have to be able to empower yourself to try to make whatever change 
that you can.” Be an advocate for patients.  
1.07.10 
Wrapping up interview. [End: 1.07.28]