1 
 
Florentina Tefalelmar Bi-Lingual Questionnaires  
 
Interview Location: Talguw, Yap 
Age of Interviewee: 45 years 
Island of Birth: 
Fais Island 
Audio Language: 
Ulithian 
Recording afc2022011_013_sr001 
00:01 Question 1 
1.   Thinking back, what are your very earliest memories of, or about, weaving? 
A. Ulithian:  Hobe luluwal tefal ngo mada mele hochil mem’mangi hare gulayem mo irel yam 
la Kai mo gula doh deur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
00:33 Mala ngang igula mo irel yai ichil luluwalei le yathkawe 
yarmat rema bidiy mel ipol, mokawer yimar fafel rebelela feur 
deur mo iyang iwe isa pai isa k’komahoy wululul yar feuru deur 
mo lol yipol. Mo yar chow, mo , haperet mo Hosasow, resa 
feur, isa k’komahoi hasigsig ye lamol ibelela tefal ngal yilim. Ye 
la sew yad ngo yibidiy ngo yimasa chog wululul yar fefeur deur 
ye lamol. 01:08 Isa loh isla pungulu ngal yai feuru ngal paiyi. Iwe 
isla gula wululul sangsang yai be chow, irel yai feru chow.iwe 
ngo irel ahh deur, ila iwol masha chog wululul yar feur deur.  
Isa loh isla feru ngal paiyi. Isa luluwalei makla yiwire irel yar 
fefeuru, ngo isa feur yai deur.  Sa mol ngalyei bo ngang ibe ibe 
dedeur irel yai deur.  01:39 Yor makla temommai mo irel yai 
feuru iwe ibelela chu ngalir rochaka yir rema  fasul dedeur 
ibele k’kmahoi wululul yar faru, isa wol log isa wol la hosomala 
mulwe igegal mor irel rechokawe refeur iwe salal mol ngal yei 
tot mo irel Makala milel deur. 
 
Interviewee in English:   What I still remember is that the ladies used to go down to the 
women’s house during their menstrual cycle. They would 
weave there. When they did their weaving, I would be there 
watching them make their warps and then weaving them.  I 
kept going back to the women’s house to observe the weaving 
techniques, until one day I felt like I could do one.  So, I started 
a warp, applying what I learned from my observations in the 
women’s house.  I was able to finish the warp, and then I 
started weaving.  There were still some techniques that I didn’t 
really know how to do, so I didn’t do it right. I would ask people 
who knew how to weave, and I watched how they did those 
weaving techniques and asked them questions.  After I learned 
what I needed to know, I would go back and apply it to my 
weaving. 
 
02:04 Question 2 
2.   In your mind, who is the one person you most associate with weaving in your life and 
why? 
2 
 
A. Ulithian:  Lol yam luluwal, itei semal le ye kael yam fel ngali irel yam fefaru doh deur hare 
yam deduer doh?  Bo mada fal? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
02:20 Ahh ila, yaramtala yekel yai fel ngali irel milel deur ngao fal 
yai felngali irel mil deur ila, Agatha Lungwemar. Ifel ngali ngo 
yugula wululul, yai be. Ifel ngali irel dedeur yagel mala yei 
semal chocola yai cousin iwe ngo hafasul pepai wol sew 
bugat, Iwe ngo hafasul foholdah sew iwe ngo hafel fengal. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Agatha Lungwemar is one person that I associate weaving 
with most because she is my cousin, we grew up together, and 
we lived at the same house. 
 
 
Interviewer in Ulithian: 
02:59 Iwe yiy mele… yami chog fel fangal ngo gel ho kai loh 
chog deur lufulyem hare? 
 
 
Interviewer in English: 
So, you associate weaving with her, but you learned how to 
weave on your own? 
 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:06 Yiy ye ma feur deur kala yal ngo ngang isma komahoi mo 
irel iwe ngo yor makla ye kal yai tamadfagli mo irel makla 
ngang yikai mo irel yai wiri, iwe isa question igli ngo yesa 
kangalyei chog iwe ngo ngang isa loh isla feuru. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
When she would weave, I would watch her. And when there 
were things that I didn’t understand, then I would ask her and 
she would explain it to me, then I would go and try it. 
 
 
03:21 Question 3 
3.   Why is weaving so important to you? 
A.   Ulithi: Mada mele dedeur ye kael yal palengpelal ngalug iyang? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
03:32 Ila mala paling pelal deur ngal yei le ngang idipli ibe kai le, 
ye paling pelal ngal yei bo yagel mala sitaptap irel mengaguch, 
ngo sitaptap irel mil mes, ngo sitapatap irel tapel wenig, irel 
meka be hapos formel, ngo si tapatap irel yach sibe fang mil 
yach chuwai be yoh ngalgic slapi mo iyang bo hamalech.     
04:05 Cholop, mo luwul pangal formel ngo sew formel le ye 
paling pelal le ibe kai bo idiple ibe kai bo ye paling pelal ngal 
yei irel hamalei mo hamalel yarmetai iwe mo chol faluyei iwe 
mo semal mo semal. 
 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
Lavalava is very important to me, and that’s why I wanted to 
learn. It’s very important to me because that is the clothing I 
wear. I also use it when someone has died. I use it to ask for 
forgiveness if someone in my family has caused something 
bad to another. We also sell it for money.  It’s one of the things 
that I wanted to learn and do for me, my relatives, and my 
island. 
3 
 
04:24  Question 4 
4.   How has weaving or woven skirts changed over your lifetime, or since the lifetime of 
those who taught you? 
A.   Ulithi:  Ifa sangal yal deur mo dedeur susuwel doh irel yam bubudoh yesa holadoh igla? 
Hare sa change tangi yathkawe ho k’kai mor irel sensei kala yam? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
04:46 Ahh… cholop Makala isa wiri le yesa yesuwel mo irel 
sangsangal doh deur. Bo ral ahh… yath kawe ngo yemusloh 
Makala gow le sifaru, deur le sifaru le mil yach sibe yaya, ngo 
yemusloh gow le sifaru le mil mala sibe halili, ngo yemus loh 
gow kala sifaru le gowl, remasor bo gowl pepe loh. 05:13 Igela 
sa paling paling mala yiwiri le change miyang, ye suwil 
moiyang bo lapal deur ka isa wiwiri ngo wochog bo tai yigegel 
deur le sibe yaya  bo sa wochog bo wululul mulwe mengage 
hare mada yach wiri.  Ngo irel ralakawe ye musloh chog 
Makala ye hasorow le sibe yaya, iwe mo yikala situwe yaya, 
ikala sibe halili mo ikala sibi yitili bo mil Makala sibe fangloh bo 
mil formel. 05:46 Igala sa daroh fangal pangal mitmatal mele 
deur ahh… mil deur le siwiri. Tai tapel ralakawe, sapling paling 
yal suwel irel sangsangal deur. Sa samat mo samat color kala  
siweri le tai yigegel ahh deur ka ye fasul mel le igegel deur irel 
yath kawe. 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I have seen a lot of changes in weaving these days.  Some 
lavalava that I see are not like the lavalava that we wear. They 
look more like cloth. In the past, the lavalava we made for 
clothing had certain patterns that we considered respectful to 
wear in public. These patterns are usually 2 to 3 colors, in 
which the wider stripe is dark and the narrow stripe is white or 
a light color.  There are lavalava that we also weave for 
“pepeloh” -- these are lavalava that we give away when 
someone has died, for peacemaking, etc.  There are lavalava 
that we make for our parents, or for special events in the 
family, as well. These days, the lavalava are all mixed up with 
patterns and colors that do not look appropriate to wear in the 
community. 
 
06:15 Question 5  
5.    If you could talk to your great-granddaughter about weaving, what would you want to tell 
her? 
A.   Ulithian:  Hare wochog bo hobe malili ngal lol lom tarfefel irel deur, mada mele hobe 
kangalur hare hodipli hobe kangalur? 
Interviewee in Ulithian: 
06:33 Yila mala ngang iluwalei ngo idipli ibe kangalur Makala lol 
laiyi fafel.  bo yir ro need rebe kai mele feurul deur. Bo deur 
sew formel le ye paling pelal ngal gich yarmat. Yo… robe mel 
le rebe gula sangsangal feurul mengagur. Irel mil deur, yar mil 
yaya, mo gowur, mo gowl wulyutigir, iwe mo hafelfelel sew mo 
sew akala yir rebe bulong luwul. Ila ila mala idipli ibe kangalur 
4 
 
Makala lol laiyi bo yir rebe pai rebe gula mele deur le sew 
formel le ye paling pelal ngal gich yarmat. 
 
 
Interviewee in English: 
I think I would like to tell my great-great granddaughters that 
they need to learn how to weave because lavalava is 
something that is very important to us in our culture.  They 
need to learn so they can make their clothing, and so they can 
make lavalava for their parents and to have on hand in case 
something happens that requires giving a lavalava.