DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED  
Interview afc2015027_03332_ms03 Log 
Christine Lewis interviews Doreen McGill Nash. 
00:00:00  Christine Lewis asks Doreen her name, occupation, where she was born (Brooklyn) 
and where she now lives (Chelsea, Manhattan, NY). 
00:00:52   Doreen describes how she got into being a family daycare provider, after studying 
tourism and travel. Places Doreen has traveled, then she describes a typical day in her daycare. 
Day starts with inspecting children for any possible signs of abuse.  Importance of doing this, to 
avoid ever being blamed for child abuse. 
00:04:00   Importance of never taking in a sleeping child.  Child must be awake or awakened 
upon arrival to daycare. Otherwise, abuse can be attributed to daycare provider.  How parents 
with an active ACS case may have an interest in blaming something on a daycare provider.  
Caring for children in shelters. 
00:05:30   Difficulties created by custody cases. 
00:06:00   Skills necessary at the job:  cooking. 
00:06:30   Skills, continued:  reading up on equipment, toy, and food safety.  Sources for this 
information. 
00:07:30   Specialized skills:  How her education within the Downtown Welfare Advocate Center 
started by Abby Hoffman’s wife, Anita, taught her how to advise people on how to fare better 
within the social welfare system. 
00:09:00   How to make a child fall asleep:  rocking, singing, certain celebrities (the rhythm of 
Michael Jackson songs). Christine shares some children’s rhymes/songs she uses. 
00:11:00   Methods of getting children to eat:  games.  
00:12:00   Methods of getting children to stop crying: talk to find out reason.  Address teething. 
00:13:00   Use of folk remedies:  coconut oil, reflexology, teething necklaces, pumpkin stem. 
Epsom salt baths.  Aloe, baking soda, olive oil, other remedies for skin problems. 
00:15:30   Domestic work versus daycare, what the differences are.  Training that is necessary. 
00:17:00   Getting certified by NY State. How nannies get to travel with families more. Dangers 
of giving children water earlier than 6 months. Babies get hydrated through other foods.  Honey 
is also dangerous under one year of age. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
1
00:19:30   Skills that a daycare worker or nanny can teach parents, that parents don’t know.  
Parents’ need for jobs and housing. What Doreen enjoys about her job:  making a difference in 
children’s lives.  Helping a lot of people. 
00:20:30   Counseling a woman in a hard custody situation.  Importance of telling the truth to a 
judge in court. Being there for a woman convinced she was about to lose her son, but did not. 
00:23:00   Aspects of the job Doreen likes least.  People coming in angry, coming many hours 
late to pick up children, threat of being reported for a false ACS complaint, if she objects to this 
behavior. Difficulty of telling families they can’t come back. 
00:24:00   How late is late:  late versus abandoning a child.  How one mother abandoned her 
child completely.  Instead of calling ACS, Doreen called grandmother in Ohio. Mother was living 
in a shelter and trying to do a night shift of work as well.  Being asked to become the child’s 
foster and refusing, resulting tensions.  Time it takes to develop an affectionate bond with 
children. 
00:26:00   Love for babies.  Differences between caring for one and for several. Child who was 
abandoned eventually went to live with grandmother in Ohio.  Lack of respect for workers 
despite complexities of child care.  Poor compensation.  
00:28:00   Different standards of daycare costs by region, NYC versus Albany.  Doreen gets 
$30/day for one child’s care.  Belongs to the AFT teachers’ union. 
00:29:00   How Doreen needed to care for five or six children before she could pay off student 
loans. D feels domestic workers make more money than she does, but she preferred to be at 
home.  She has more control at home. 
00:30:30   Relations with parents.  Nice things they do for her (dress made from the Gambia). 
Being taken on vacation, some extra bonuses from them.  Whether or not D regards ACS as her 
“boss” or employer.  No, the state licenses her, but she gets her paycheck from ACS.  Agency for 
Children’s Services.  How the abuse service investigations are from a department within the 
ACS.  How ACS is used to bogus complaints, whether you do your job well, or not. 
00:32:00   Problems with proving your innocence, ACS sticking around, not always recognizing 
abuse.  Examples of making a difference in a child’s life, learning from YouTube, using phonics, 
flash cards, ABC, 123.  Importance of preparing children to enter school at the same level their 
peers are at.  Unprepared children are harder for K12 teachers.  Debate about how much prep 
is too much, too much competition.  How this is negotiated with parents. 
00:35:36   Importance of literacy, including financial literacy. Historical context of literacy within 
slavery, and stories that motivate African-American children to read. 
00:37:30   Child still in contact with D on Facebook.  Sharing memories with him now. How she 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
2
manages parents to keep them respectful of her time and her schedule.  More time to herself in 
summertime. Setting her own holidays and days off.  Importance of saying no.  Importance of 
not working weekends and holidays.  D has courses and meetings.  Occasional exceptions.  
Reflections on how immigrant parents from Africa and Caribbean that D works with don’t seem 
to be as afraid of immigration as in days past. 
00:41:00   Historic context for these changes. How immigrant women could work picking 
strawberries in Canada then find a domestic job in the U.S.  Southern women as well, like D’s 
grandmother, who later got a factory job. 
00:43:00   Any kind of food or folk tales D shares with her kids.  Kids enjoy watching Roots.  Mix 
of ethnicities in D’s daycare. How children like the music in Roots.  What foods D shares 
(casaba, okra, tofu).  Avoids red meat.  Soy and pasta.  How okra, casaba, and yucca are crops 
associated with Africa, Mexico and Trinidad. Mac and cheese.  How D cooks casaba. Steams it 
and adds green sweet peas, carrots.  Adds corn and lima beans to okra.  How children don’t like 
green stuff.  Other vegetables.  Sweet potato, broccoli, spinach. 
00:47:00   Work/life balance.  D keeps events going via Facebook.  Saves money for cab rides. 
How she prepares the night before.  Other organizations and groups.  DWU.  National 
Association for Family Daycare/NAEFC.  D does feel part of a larger group when doing her work.  
United to the nannies in the neighborhood, mothers, neighborhood.  Good feeling.  Importance 
of providing information so people don’t need to take courses.  Competition between daycare 
providers. 
00:50:13   How D became part of DWU, came to an immigration march.  Woman on a 
playground invited her. 
00:51:00  Why D keeps going to meetings.  People are nice.  Sometimes there are tensions 
between Caribbean and American women but D doesn’t buy into the stereotypes or 
competition. [Chris adjusts a microphone.]  All the stereotypes of different workers and 
immigrants, competition around jobs, name-calling and prejudice.  How D went to the meetings 
despite her daughter’s warning not to “try too hard….because they don’t like you.”  C and D 
agree this is not true.  Difficulty of understanding the divisions they’ve been fed.  D has been to 
Jamaica.  What DW Bill of Rights means to Doreen.  It’s legitimate and more benefits should be 
added.  Paid holidays.  Exploitation needs to stop. 
00:54:30   Employers (doctors and neurosurgeons) need to stop asking worker to come in on 
their days off.   She needs to take care of her own children.  You should be able to fight back 
without losing your job. C mentions a request for a worker “45 or under.” C is tempted to test 
for discrimination by giving this request to someone older than 45.  How employment agencies 
narrow the candidate pool down based on physical characteristics, hairstyle, race, even though 
they should only discuss work performance.  Problem of how laws are not followed, how can 
they be enforced?  Problem of controlling private conversations. 
00:57:30   DWU’s importance:  we have to unite.  It’s legitimate work.  How it is good work 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
3
despite the stigma.  Caring for children daily makes other work possible.  How D does not fault 
or resent people who can afford to hire someone to care for their children; it’s just the hand 
they are dealt.  How the bill of rights should have more impact.  More accountability is needed.  
Legislators should pay more attention to domestic workers.  More international accountability, 
as in cases with celebrities hiring nannies abroad, horror stories where workers are threatened 
to be sent back.  It’s an international business.  Harassment and below-minimum pay should be 
controlled.  Government should get involved. How D would like to find a way to get paid to 
travel.  Anywhere that has a beach.  Maybe to do travel writing. 
01:00:30   D has also done CPR training. Benefits of DWU include feeling less alienated, going to 
the theater. 
01:01:30   D would like to get in a play (act).  She is now writing and performing. It’s hard to 
“play the heavy” to get people to pick up their children on time though. Some parents are 
starting new jobs and they don’t want to tell their new employers in turn that they can’t stay; 
they can’t get fired. Importance of remaining flexible.  
01:04:00   How “flexible” can turn into exploitation.  Has only had to kick three people out in 
eight years.  D offers last words of advice, for people never to look down upon others, as one 
never knows about financial ups and downs and unexpected misfortunes.  All people deserve 
respect. Listen to and take an interest in others.  Be fair and open-minded. 
01:06:00 C thanks D and ends interview. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
4