Interview starts at 09:14 
 
Briana O’Higgins interviewing Doug Smith it is October 26, 2012. 
 
Doug will you say your name and a little bit about what you do? 
 
Um, my name is Doug Smith and everything else, I work with tooling QA at now 
Spirit, used to be Boeing.  
 
Used to be Boeing? Did you go with Spirit..? 
 
Yeah I went with Spirit, I didn’t have much of a choice. 
 
Interesting, well I will get to that later. Are you from here? 
 
Yes, I was born and raised here. 
 
(Interruption by film guy, checking levels.) 
 
You were born in Wichita? 
 
Yes, born in Wichita, 1954.  
 
When you were growing up were you aware of Boeing? 
 
Absolutely, where we lived and everything else, we lived in Planeview at that time. 
They were flying and training pilots for B47s and I used to watch those fly over 
when I was a kid. 
 
Did your dad work for Boeing at that time? 
 
Yes, he did.  
 
What do you remember thinking about Boeing when you were a kid? What did you 
feel about it? 
 
Well every time, because dad worked at Boeing and everything else at that time, 
aircraft was sometimes unstable, people were laid off often. When he was working 
with it, times were good, we got to go to the Tastee Freeze every week and uh, 
presents for Christmas were good. It seemed as though the people were routinely 
laid off right at Thanksgiving and then brought back after the first of the year. But it 
was a good time, and I remember that. I was always into airplanes and I remember 
watching the B47s fly over at that time and back in the 50s, and it was interesting 
and I always wanted to go out there. I finally got to go out there once when I was a 
kid. But, I enjoyed being around airplanes a lot when I was a kid. I don’t know if he 
liked It, but I did. 
 
Was your dad laid off ever? 
 
Yes, like I said, at that time and everything else, it was routine that people were laid 
off around the holidays. And, um, when they were laid off from one aircraft company 
they would go to another and go to work, so having three major aircraft companies 
here in Wichita. Um, Boeing was always the mainstay though. Everyone wanted to 
go back to Boeing because the pay was very nice. 
 
(interrupted by film guy, fixes shadow.) 
 
Will you talk about your path to Boeing, did you graduate high school and go to 
work there? Or what was your trajectory? 
 
Uh, the first time I hired in Boeing was I believe it was February 1974, if I remember 
right. I worked in the, actually, a tooling machine shop. And when that slowed down 
I transferred to the production machine shop area, and uh, I was young, on second 
shift. Newly married, uh, there was no chance of getting a first shift and a lot of 
overtime, not something that most young kids wanted. Um, I quit. I wished I hadn’t 
of, but I did. I ended up going to the service for a while, everything else, came back, 
and went right back to aircraft when I went back, so. You learn a lot by doing those 
things. 
 
Will you talk a little bit more about um, I guess what lead up to your position at 
Boeing? What were you doing before that, were you just out of high school, or… 
 
I was fairly fresh out of high school, and everything else. Um, I was able to run 
machines; I ran machines when I hung around dad. We done a lot of tooling, a lot of 
machine work, running a lay when I was in grade school, mills and stuff when I was 
in junior high. So that is how I wound up in that, but um, it was it was an interesting 
time period and family to be in. I never thought that I would be doing anything else 
but aircraft. Growing up as a kid I just assumed that was all there was to do in this 
area. So I looked forward to going to work for them. 
 
Were you sort of disappointed at what you found when you went to work for Boeing 
the first time? 
 
I wouldn’t say that I was disappointed um, its it’s a very hard field to get used to as a 
child and everything else, and fresh out of high school you don’t realize being 
thrown in that type of industry and everything else, that you, you have to change a 
lot of your thinking and have to learn to put up with a lot of things. Um, it wasn’t 
hard work, just the atmosphere of some of the people was kind of hard to get used 
to. It is a pretty heavy industry to break into. So. 
 
You were just really young and so… 
 
Yeah, lets say young, dumb and stupid. 
 
Is there anybody else besides your dad that worked for Boeing? 
 
Yes, my uh, my uncle worked and retired from Boeing, and everything else. I believe 
he spent 38 or 39 years there, um, I had a, my nephew worked there for a short time, 
uh, moved to Seattle, I have a cousin that currently works for Boeing, he is in Seattle, 
he started here in Wichita. Uh, I have a brother in law that started in Wichita went to 
corporate in Seattle, he’s in Oklahoma now, and uh, I believe that is about it, oh I do 
have, my wife’s brother works there also. So, a lot of family members. 
 
(Later interviewee says his son works at Spirit in a similar position.) 
 
I want to go back to when you were growing up a little, did you always want to work 
for Boeing, like when teachers would say, ‘little Doug, what do you want to be when 
you grow up,’ did you say…. 
 
Well, I wont say that I always looked forward to working at Boeing and everything 
else. I was into aircraft pretty heavy, and always thought I wanted to learn how to 
fly and so a lot of my stuff in school and everything else, you have these show and 
tell and stuff. I was always bringing airplanes, engines that they had built, um most 
people just assumed that I was going to fly airplanes, um, but as you get a little older 
health takes over and you have to give that idea up. But as far as working in Wichita, 
it’s one of the better places to work. I have worked at several other aircraft and a lot 
of small shops and this has been one of the better places to work.  
 
How did you get that first job, did you apply, or was their a fair? 
 
Not at that time and everything else. The employment office was in Wichita, I 
applied and everything else, and it was a half a day ordeal at that time to fill out the 
application and get it turned in and sit and wait for somebody to talk to you. And I 
was offered a job in the machine shop area. So, I accepted, gladly. 
 
And when you got out of the service and came back, what was that application 
process like? Were you reluctant to go back? Or eager? 
 
I…. actually, when I left out there and went to the service I did not plan on coming 
back to aircraft. I was hoping to go back to school, go into something else, but when 
you’re married, bills add up and you need immediate money. It turned out to be the 
best and it just never changed.  
 
What was your job titled at Boeing and what were your job responsibilities? 
 
When I first hired in it was machine shop, basically tooling machine. We supported 
the tool shop um, and then when I came back and everything else um, I’d left for a 
while and everything else, but when I came back from service, I got into inspection 
at another aircraft company. Went into production, inspection, everything else, for 
about a year. Um, another company I learned to run CMM systems, computer driven 
machines, um, after a year switched into that in the tooling/inspection world, and 
have been doing it ever since. Since about 1985 this time.  
 
What is the work culture like in that department where you work? 
 
The workload? 
 
Well, yeah the work load, and like do you socialize with your coworkers? Is it 
relaxed? Do you work a lone? 
 
Well, let’s see. We have our own icebox, our own microwave… yeah it’s pretty 
relaxed. I am probably the one that does a lot of the cutting up and joking at work 
and everything else, I spend a lot of my idle time you know, how to set somebody up 
in a joke. It’s fun. We have uh, I think part of that is getting used to the industry, 
become comfortable with it. You know the ins and the outs, and actually become a 
little more comfortable with the situation. Everybody has to work together as a 
team, and once you do that you get along quite well. Some of us socialize together 
outside of work. Some people, its just too much time, and can’t. We have dinners at 
work together; we do a lot of cooking on the side. Fix ribs. But, yeah, we enjoy doing 
it or we wouldn’t be there. You can’t stay with something unless you enjoy it, so its 
fun.  
 
Over the course of your career, you talked about your dad and the ups and downs of 
the aerospace industry, have you experienced that over the course of your career? 
 
Yes, I basically have been laid off five times in my lifetime in aircraft. It’s uh, first 
time is very disheartening, uh, you plan on never going back to aircraft, but then 
they call. And there is nothing out in this part of the country that pays as good, or 
the benefits. It gets a little easier each time, but still, a little unnerving, but it is not 
so bad each time, you kind of get used to it after a while.  
 
When you did get laid off, was it kind of like, OK, now I have to wait and they are 
going to call me. Was there that expectation every time? 
 
No, um, I was laid off one time and I spent 2 and a half hours waiting to talk to a local 
convenience store chain when they look at you and everything else, they see on your 
application that you have worked aircraft and they would just… and in fact one time 
they just tore it up and threw it in the trash and told us to leave, they didn’t want 
anything to do with us.  
 
Why? 
 
With aircraft, you are going to go back. They money is too nice, the benefits are too 
nice, you can’t afford not to go back. So when you are laid off and everything else, 
um, one particular time I … somebody to work at a gas station at that time, and they 
wanted 5 years experience, which is basically unheard of. I worked in a gas station 
for a while, and there was never any experience required. So when you have mass 
layoffs in one area like they have off and on in the 70s, it is pretty hard to find a job 
anywhere else, you usually would wind up having to leave the area. If you have 
something you can do on the side, you can make it through. Usually in 3 or 4 months, 
6 months you are called back. Um, I think the worst layoff that I had, and everything 
else, I was laid off for about 7 and half months, and it was very nice to be called back, 
it is a nice feeling, but it is very disheartening when you are close to losing 
everything. Just, you get used to it after a while. It hasn’t been bad last 10 years, it 
hasn’t been quite so bad. Um, partly because you gain a little more seniority, your 
not so likely to be laid off. But if you want to retire someplace, you’ve got to go back.  
 
What did you do during those periods that you were laid off to make ends meet? 
 
Well lets see, I painted cars, I painted airplanes. Uh, I worked on houses… rebuilt 
cars, restored cars for people. I was kind of a meticulous type person, so I always 
enjoyed doing the custom painting on cars, or going to Ben Airport in ….. and 
painting airplanes for a gentlemen named Max Lundeen.  
Because I enjoyed the detail work. So, I was always able to find something to do. 
Didn’t pay as well, but it was kept me busy and I enjoy it. 
 
Will you talk about, you mentioned your seniority, was it like moving up? Did you 
move up? Were there opportunities to move up?  
 
There’s plenty of opportunity to move up. I uh, I was never one to want to get off the 
floor. It took me a while to figure out that I am a worker, I am not interested in the 
while collar jobs and everything else because I’ve got to stay busy. There is too much 
idle time, and I am not involved enough to be a white collar. As far as, not 
necessarily moving up. You gain seniority over the years that you’ve been there. Uh, 
if you’ve got twenty years or thirty years, and a layoff comes along they may go back 
3 or 4 years. You’re not going to be laid off, the other people with less seniority will. 
If they come back, usually, usually, after about the third layoff and everything else, 
there’s like there’s people very seldom get laid off. If you are fortunate enough as my 
uncle was to get in during a time period during WW II, he was never laid off in 38, 
39 years. There were a few people who got in in that time period. Um, unusual 
though. 
 
And that is just because of his seniority? He started in the 40s..  
 
Well, right there was a big build up for a lot of military aircraft and everything else, 
at during WW II and years afterwards, so when the layoffs started coming around he 
had enough seniority so that he was never laid off. A few people got into that 
bracket. 
 
What years were you employed at Boeing, I guess not counting layoffs.  
Lets see, 1974, late 75 I believe I left, I came back in 84, and I have been there ever 
since, so. 
 
Will you talk about the split? How did you end up… You work at Cessna now? 
 
Well I have worked at Cessna, but I currently work at Spirit now, which was Boeing. 
Have been since 84. 
 
And that was when the commercial side split off? 
 
Right they sold the Wichita commercial division and everything else, 7 years ago I 
believe and I’ve been there ever since.  
 
What was that time like at Boeing, and then at Spirit, the split, what was that like for 
you? 
 
The only thing we noticed different was uh, name changes, letterhead changes, as far 
as the job title, I did not notice anything as far as job, or even the people I worked 
with. It was even the same current management system. So, we really didn’t notice a 
change at all, other than just a name of the company. 
 
So it wasn’t really a big deal for you? 
 
No. It wasn’t a big change at all. A little unusual, to go through a change like that. you 
always wonder what’s going to happen, are they going to change anything. But, uh, 
turned out there was not much of a change at all.  
 
What is the most frustrating part about your job? 
 
Overtime. Um, I’ve had at times, uh, we’re built up on programs, I’ve had 17, 18 
weekends in a row with 12 hour days, seven days a week. After about three weeks 
you get used to it, and that is part of the aircraft in this part of town, in Wichita, that 
you’d have to get used to. There is a lot of overtime and you have to take it. They 
need the people there. They have schedules that they want to try and meet. 
Sometimes we feel they are unrealistic schedules, but they’ve got to work the 
overtime. And especially as you get older you just don’t want the overtime as much. 
You’ve got other things you would like to do. You wear down a little faster.  
 
How does overtime work? It sounds like it is almost required, and I imagine it is 
when there is a project that needs to get done. 
 
They, the overtime actually, most of the time you could turn the overtime down. 
Every time they ask you some programs uh, it was mandatory. Which meant that 
everybody in that department had to be there. And um, it’s usually; it comes during 
hunting season or sometime in the year when you don’t want it to.  
 
Um, what is the most rewarding part of your job? 
 
Well, the most rewarding part and everything else, is actually, I enjoy being around 
the people. I love to talk to people, I like to deal with them, um, once you get used to 
the job and everything else, you are usually into a lot of things, you wind up.. 
Sometimes you get bored and you volunteer for things. Um, its nice to go to work, its 
nice to come home, and I guess I would have to say probably the most rewarding 
thing is the fact that you have a job that I enjoy working. I’ve never been one to sit 
still I guess I inherited that. But, I don’t like to sit idle very long, so it’s a… just the 
dealing with people and being, feeling proud that you are able to work and do 
something. Um, a personal feeling. 
 
You talked about this a little bit. Do you socialize um, or have a social circle of 
Boeing employees, like after hours? 
 
There are a few, um, it’s a, I have a habit of asking people what their hobbies are and 
if they are anything kind of like mine or anything, then you have a tendency to talk 
to them, deal with them after hours. Um, my problem is that I am into a lot of things 
from, I’ve done reloading, I’ve done hunting, I’ve done car rebuild, I’ve done custom 
painting, ive done housework. As far as house construction, refurbishing houses. 
Um, guitars. Um. I am interested in a lot of things, especially if it has a mechanical 
side to it. So its, quite impossible to be around a lot of people and not have some that 
you deal with after work. It’s fun. 
 
Are those your friends? The people at Spirit and Boeing? 
 
Yeah, um, a few of them are. You can’t be friends with everybody, you can be friends 
at work but you cant socialize after work with them. Once you leave you still have 
your own social life afterwards. Some of those people there their social activities 
kind of mimic yours, so it is easy to kind of intertwine lives and stuff. 
 
(Recorder maintenance) 
 
um, what is your impression of Boeing as an employer and as a contributor to the 
Wichita community? 
 
My impression of Boeing is …. Everybody has a time period where you wonder 
what’s going on, what are they doing? But unless you are in a situation of those who 
are in the direction of calling a company, it is hard to put them down or to be 
disgusted with them because you don’t know everything going on. There’s always 
time periods that you wonder. Sometimes you never understand. But, as far as a 
company contributing to the Wichita area, they contribute a lot. Um, I don’t know 
how many small companies have started in Wichita over the last 40, 50 years um, 
just doing Boeing work. There are a few that I personally know of, but I would say 
there are literally thousands of companies that have been put together because 
Boeing farms out a percentage of their work in the past to companies in the area. 
And, its uh, its been a very stronghold for Wichita division. I think uh, Boeing and 
aircraft in general has held Wichita in a very um, high work atmosphere with the 
economy the way its been the last few years. There would be a lot of people out of 
work if it wasn’t for Boeing in particular over the last few years.  
 
What does that mean now that they are closing up shop? 
 
Well, Boeing may be leaving Wichita, but the employees are still here and Spirit has 
been taking in direction to take on work from several other companies. So, the 
workforce is slowly increasing, so I don’t really think that it will make a large impact 
on Wichita as far as Boeing leaving, more of a… people that I have worked with in 
the past that have retired from Boeing, they feel a little hurt because Boeing’s left 
Wichita because they have grown up here, its always been in Wichita, its been a part 
of Wichita and now their basically leaving. As far as an economical, um, I don’t think 
that is going to be a real problem with the way Spirit is taking, their taking the old 
Boeing division, taking on a lot of work from other companies, uh, we actually have 
a lot of work. More than we’ve seen in quite a while. With Boeing, we would all be 
laid off right now. We would all still be Boeing. But we’re fortunate to still be 
working. 
 
Do you remember, what you were doing, where you were when you heard that 
Boeing was going to completely withdraw from Wichita? 
 
Yeah. Um, the first time that I heard that Boeing was being put up for sale, Wichita 
division, for sale I was on first shift, still getting used to first shift after 28 and a half 
years on second, um, at uh, I was working production inspection at the time. Um, I 
was actually in production inspection from a layoff from the tooling area. And uh, it 
was finalized about four weeks after I was recalled to tooling inspection. A lot of 
concern.. What was going to happen to Wichita. We didn’t know what was going to 
happen at our jobs, but uh, and a lot of people standing around and doing a lot of 
talking, wondering what was going to happen. But yeah, I remember. 
 
Was that… you mean in the 90s?  
 
Um, when Spirit was sold?  
 
Yeah. 
 
I don’t remember exactly the date, but it was, like I say it has been about seven years 
ago. 
 
Oh, was it that recently? 
 
Yeah. 
 
Oh, wow. And what about when at about this time last year they said they were 
going to completely withdraw? 
 
It didn’t really surprise me. Um, we uh, there has always been kind of a um, … oh a 
feud between Seattle and Wichita, and when they sold the Wichita commercial 
division it was not a real surprise. We figured it was uh, going to happen. We um, my 
concern at the time was that my brother in law worked for Boeing still, actually I 
had two brother in laws worked for Boeing at that time. One of them is in Seattle 
currently and the other one is in Oklahoma.  
 
So they both took offers and moved away? 
 
Yes, yeah. Um one of them took the offer because he only has two years to retire, and 
the other one has one year. So they took what they could so they would be able to 
get their retirement.  
 
Are they going to come back? 
 
One of them is, the other one I don’t think will. 
 
The one in Seattle? 
 
No, the one in Seattle will probably be back. The one in Oklahoma I don’t expect 
them to… their plan was not to stay here in this part of the country when they 
retired anyway. 
 
What sort of, when you were at Boeing, did you hear about Seattle? Or what was the 
feeling about Seattle? What was Seattle’s impression of you guys? 
 
We always felt that they, a lot of times if anything wasn’t right they wanted to blame 
Wichita, was the feelings that we always got. There was a simple little tool to come 
along, um, called a theodolite. And um, I worked with the Theodolite when it first 
came to Wichita. They sent some crew to Seattle… one of the things that the 
Theodolite was able to do was from inspection side we were required to check a 
reference system, which is set up points. You usually shoot within 2 thousand of 
each shift, and sometimes whenever inspector felt like they needed to check it they 
would be checked. What they found out was that there was a terrible problem with 
temperature change. Material expands and contracts with temperature and there is 
quite a temperature change from Wichita to Seattle, especially in the fall and winter 
times. And uh, it, I wasn’t a real fan of the Theodolite, but it was able to bring to light 
a lot of problems. Uh, once they start closing the shops up, start using temperature 
controlled environment, a lot of those problems from tooling and everything, 
Sandpoint, would go away. Um, when you are building a tool that is 60, 70 feet long, 
it can expand and contract, um, 50 to 60 thousands, depending on the material. So, 
um, it um, begin to kind of stabilize some of the uh, problems between Seattle and 
Wichita from what we have seen. I am sure there are other things that have changed. 
Um, but um, we always felt that Seattle didn’t care for Wichita division too much. 
But seemed like a lot of people leave here to go to Seattle, they get into management 
they go up the ladder and everything else. Every time there was a major 
management change everything was in upheaval for a few months. But um, a little 
bit of rivalry, kind of like schools. But it continued. 
 
Did you guys get work sometimes that they didn’t get? Was there any of that? 
 
No, I don’t know, um from the areas that I have been involved with I wouldn’t know 
for sure if there was. One of the major changes in Wichita is when they, there was a 
team that went around and wanted to view all of the Boeing sites and determine 
who was going to be ‘tooling center.’ So, all the tooling would be manufactured at 
one point instead of several satellite shops in all divisions. And, uh, they were from 
what I understood the gentleman who took them around for uh, a tour of Wichita 
and everything else for this group to make their decision. They were very impressed 
with the fact that we had not just two or three NC machines and a couple of CMM 
systems that nobody else had, we had several, an entire two buildings that were 
basically dedicated to tooling with a lot of machines. So there was a disheartening 
feeling I think in Seattle when they found out that Wichita was awarded the tooling 
contract, or the Tooling Excellence Center, as they called it. And we had a lot of 
tooling, picked up a lot of work that way. That didn’t last long because then they sold 
the Wichita division. So… we still do a lot of tooling though. 
 
Is there a difference between Boeing and Spirit, in your experience? 
 
Mmmm, I don’t see a lot of difference, um, the um, the management is still basically 
the same. The people we work with is basically the same. The only thing that seems 
to be a lot different is uh, we do work for other companies. Their procedures are a 
little different; their inspection requirements are a little different. Um, so we have to 
learn several different companies’ requirements instead of having to deal with one 
company, um, with their requirements we deal with several. And uh, it’s a little 
unnerving sometimes. Especially when you’re having to work overtime, or you have 
a lot of work to do and you’re not going to spend time and do nothing but read, 
when that is one of the most boring things for me because I can’t move around 
much. But, uh, it is a little disheartening to become involved in several companies, 
once you do you find that it begins to break the monotony of your job sometimes, so 
you are doing a lot of different things. You learn a lot more that way really. 
 
Did you, do you feel a sense of loyalty to Boeing, and what about other coworkers or 
family member that you know that worked there? 
 
If you spend 30 years at a company you have to have some sense of loyal to the 
company. If you don’t you being to pull yourself away from your job, mentally, and if 
you’re not careful you will wind up leaving, going to another company. It is hard to 
give up something you spent so many years putting together. Um, we always joke 
around a lot and talk about when something doesn’t go very right well, we would 
have done it this way, we would have done it that way. But we are not the ones 
making the decisions; we’re just the ones doing what we are told to do. You still 
create a sense of loyalty for a company though. We uh, we sometimes say that we 
don’t, but that is just lying to ourselves at the time, so. 
 
How is Wichita going to be different without Boeing? 
 
I don’t think there will be a lot of difference. Um, because like I say, Spirit has done 
an excellent job picking up a lot of work from other companies. Uh, the people that 
were working for Boeing that lost their jobs are slowly being brought back to the 
point that they are actually hiring new people. Um, I think the workforce in a matter 
of a few years will be as strong, or probably stronger than it ever was with Boeing. 
As far as number of personnel and pay scale, I don’t know what the new pay scale is 
for the new employees coming in. But those of us that are on the old pay scale, uh, I 
don’t think it is going to be much impact on Wichita. Maybe in a short term, in a few 
years uh, it make take a few years to kind of break even but I think in the long run it 
is actually going to be better for Wichita.  Um, becoming Spirit. 
 
Why? 
 
Taking work on from several other companies. Um, when we were Boeing, we had a 
number of buildings, um, since we’ve become Spirit and everything else, we have 
taken on a lot more work. Um, not just in the tooling world. Production is taking on a 
lot of work, they are having to hire a lot of people, um, I understand they are looking 
at possibly building several more buildings, which will be larger than they were 
even as Boeing. As far as an impact to Wichita, I don’t think it is going to be… a 
temporary impact in the long run – two years. I think in another two years we’ll be 
above what we were as the old Boeing.  
 
What, um, did your dad, if you can remember, feel about Boeing when he retired? 
And what would he think about Boeing leaving Wichita altogether? 
 
I think dad would be like some of the older gentleman that retired from Boeing – 
spent you know 30, 40 years there. I think that they would feel a little disheartened 
because they were such an icon in Wichita for so many years. Um, but if they, if he 
was still alive I think he would see that we would be a larger company in the long 
run. Uh, the way that they are handling it now. Before we could only take on Boeing 
work. Um, now we are taking on several companies. I think they would see that it 
would be a better turn in the long run, the way things are doing now. But, still a 
sense of loss. The fact that you lost a company that you retired from. 
 
I think that is it, unless you think there is something I should have asked that I 
didn’t… About Boeing and its impact on Wichita? 
 
I think you done pretty good really. 
 
(Film Guy) I’ve got a question. Tell me what a typical day is like for you at the shop. 
 
Do you want the truth, what it really is? 
 
Maybe describe a day when you were in tool, and then how that was different from 
production inspection. 
 
Production inspection, and everything else, usually was, we felt like they were 
always a little short handed. And, uh, we come in and everything else, if you were an 
hour or two late coming in in production inspection, they didn’t care if you wanted 
to stay over an hour to catch up. It was run all the time. In production you really 
needed to be physically fit, and everything else, to be able to get along with it. And, 
you have to learn to have a sense of loyalty, um, or it it will eat you alive emotionally. 
Tooling, tooling is completely different. We have schedules to do, things to work 
with, but it’s not necessarily, the only schedule you work on is you have an end date 
to finish the tool. On the floor inspector’s side they do a lot of running, but it’s not so 
much a heavy push as it is a fact that you just need to get there and get it done. 
Where I am at, I am pretty well stay. We have three machines and we pretty well 
stay in an area. Its really pretty, even when we are working hard and everything else 
it is still pretty leisurable. We uh, like I said, we have our icebox we have our 
microwave we have our coffee pot. Um, its uh, its different than it was in the old 
days, uh, I can definitely tell that. We come in in the mornings we kind of look at the 
area over, see what tooling has come in from overnight, um, what’s left from second 
shift, what the problems were. We kind of have our own little pow wow between uh 
the other operator and I and maybe a lead man or a supervisor, determine what 
needs to be done for the day, and then we go get our cup of coffee. As soon as the 
supervisor leaves we go get our cup of coffee, hahaha. And then we come back and 
we get ourselves going. Um, its not hard work by any means, its not something that 
we have to run. Um, as far as the tooling side. Most people who leave production and 
uh, spend a little time in tooling don’t want to go back. Um, it is a different deal. A 
few people will, but most of them want to stay in tooling. It is a lot more fun. A lot 
more sociable.  
 
Thank you.