Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | Jodi Harris Benoit, Manager of Agrotourism
Food Processing and Legacy Trades 
Title: White Oak Pastures interview with Jodi Harris Benoit 
Interview conducted by Makalé Faber Cullen 
Interview /Event Unique ID: afc2015042_04181 
Date of Interview/Event: 2017-05-30 
Location: Bluffton, GA White Oak Pastures General Store 
Duration of Interview / Event (Total): 00:47:00 
Summary of  Interview / Event: 
Jodi Harris Benoit, youngest of the Harris family daughters, discusses how closeness to her family and 
affection for her small, rural hometown of Bluffton, Georgia guided her career decisions. She shares her 
educational path and the on-farm learning that led her to define and craft her position at White Oak Pastures 
as its first Manager of Agrotourism. Jodi describes the contributions her work makes to the farm and to the 
revival and development of Bluffton. 
Interview Log: 
0 00 12 Jodi Harris Benoit introduces herself as a native of Georgia, born November 25, 1989 in Albany and 
raised in Bluffton on the farm. She is the Manager of Agrotourism at White Oak Pastures (WOP), welcoming 
and facilitating the trips and holidays of guests (customers, tourists, press, researchers) who come to the farm: 
tours, cabins for lodging, etc. 
Jodi started working full time on the farm in January 2014 but, as a member of the Harris family, she always 
worked as a helper during summers. In the 1990s, during her childhood, her father was beginning to 
transition away from industrialized, centralized farming, but still, they farmed much differently than they do 
today. She spent summers “working cows and keeping records.” 
0 01 59 Jodi defines agrotourism on the farm and in Georgia and describes the range of guests. She explains 
how White Oak Pastures differs from most other farms with an agrotourism arm that have corn mazes and 
petting zoos. At our farm, she says, visitors learn a different side of farming: good animal welfare and how 
livestock animals are raised, slaughtered, and butchered. She describes agrotourism as a growing field.  
0 03 09 Jodi describes the beginning of agrotourism on the farm. She describes the goal: bringing families to 
the farm to learn about agriculture. 
0 03 49 Jodi describes her initial career aspiration (speech pathology), her college work in education, desire to 
marry a farmer who would “take dad’s place some day, running the farm.” While in college, she learned about 
the changes her father was making in farming at home. While she didn’t totally understand the depth or 
implications of the shift in work philosophy on the farm, she saw a potential professional future for herself 
but needed to find a field, a university major, that would enable her to grow at the farm and beyond the farm. 
She describes settling on public relations, which offered options. 
0 05 19 She began to “work full time for Dad” in January 2014 having first worked the required year 
somewhere else, her father’s rule for all his children. Jodi describes her struggle to find her place 
professionally at the farm and her observation that people were increasingly visiting it. 
0 06 20 Shadowing visitors and and hearing people’s questions gave Jodi the idea of giving tours and a farm 
experience. She describes the kernel of ideas that became WOP’s agrotourism arm and that it helped that the 
on-farm restaurant had opened in June 2012, a few years earlier.  
0 07 16 Jenny describes the restaurant, which features a pasture-to-plate menu and Cordon Bleu chef, which 
attracts diners from afar and many have asked for a place to stay. In the fall 2014, Jodi “convinced dad to 
build four small forest cabins.” 
  of  
1
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | Jodi Harris Benoit, Manager of Agrotourism
0 08 07 Jodi describes the process of building the cabins and the way the investment raised professional 
stakes for her. She discusses the stories and styles of the cabins. 
0 09 33 Jodi notes that visitors’ weekend or three-to-four day weekday getaways on the farm are really that, 
escapes from 21st century life as the cabins offer no Wi-Fi and weak cellular phone signals. The weekends are 
the most popular “with people wanting to unplug and take tours.” Jodi describes her staff who offer a one-
hour walking tour that includes the red meat and poultry abattoirs, the egg candling house, the hides facility, 
and the greenhouse. Horseback riding around the farm lets visitors who spend the night see things, like 
composting. 
0 12 04 Jodi explains the significance of professionalizing farm tours. Because WOP is a working farm, no 
worker had time to give tours….Jodi describes how she crafted the tours, with allegiance to the true way the 
farm is run. If guests want to see the slaughter facility but not see animals slaughtered, Jodi tells them that the 
farm slaughters animals Monday through Friday, that she can’t stop operations, and that they don’t have to 
watch. In other ways she accommodates visitors’ interests but is clear that WOP is not Disney World. 
0 13 10 I am very clear about what the tour entails. “When classes visit, I expect students to be respectful and 
not exclaim “ewww” or say “gross” as they watch our employees do their jobs. That behavior isn’t 
tolerated.”Jodi says that, for a long time, she got emotional about visitor’s negative reactions but now 
understands that the experience isn’t for everybody. 
0 14 19 Jodi learned the story of White Oak Pastures from her father. She still sits in on conversations that he 
leads.  
0 15 38 Jodi describes her place of work. She worked beside her father for more than a year, but now they all 
work in separate buildings. Jodi is grateful to be able to lean on her sister Jenni, who is the Director of 
Marketing. 
0 16 55 Jodi shares the origins of the farm’s general store in Bluffton, which she overseas. She describes the 
two stores that operated in Bluffton while her father was growing up there and the feud between the two 
shopkeepers as the population of the small rural town dwindled.  
0 17 47 When WOP bought this store, it was like a time machine, full of old Coke bottles, medicines on the 
shelves, shoes, hats, and clothing. 
0 18 28 We always had the vision it would one day be our store but waited to purchase it until we could afford 
to renovate it.  
0 18 47 Jodi describes the renovation of the old general store. One of our guys did the construction work, 
and the store had its grand opening on October 15, 2016. She discusses the shop location: Our not being on 
Highway 27 confuses travelers, but billboards on the road direct them to the store in Bluffton. Reviving 
Bluffton and its community is a family passion, so Jodi doesn’t regret moving the store to Bluffton (form its 
previous location in the red meat abattoir). People in Bluffton can buy their milk and bread there and not 
have to drive 15 miles to the farm to get staple items. 
0 19 59 The store’s inventory includes all that WOP produces: leather, soap and candles made from beef 
tallow, fresh and frozen meats, vegetables, raw milk from a local dairy, and produce from other Georgia farms 
and businesses: pecans, salsas, canned pickles, and snacks. Farm employees stop in for pick-me-up snacks 
from time to time.  
0 20 52 Jodi describes the processes of buying and ordering a variety of items, like barbecue sauce. 
0 21 36 Jodi provides customer profiles: employees who stop in for Gatorade and Pringles or the sausages 
that are grilled each morning alongside coffee brewed with beans from a place in Americus. We serve meals 
  of  
2
3
Occupational Folklife Project | Food Processing and Legacy Trades | Jodi Harris Benoit, Manager of Agrotourism
from our food truck to cabin guests who already buy our beef or chicken or other products at Whole Foods 
markets. And we sell to people driving by. 
0 23 33 Jodi advertises through a newsletter and blog. Laura Mortelliti [the farm’s multimedia manager] puts 
out tidbits like “On the way to St. George Island, make sure you stop at….” Jodi wants the store to be an 
experience for travelers and have them make it a stop on their beach trips. 
0 24 52 On interior design. The store’s interior was rebuilt, but the floors and the front of the store are 
original, untouched as much as possible. Damaged parts of the floor were repaired with old wood. Coolers 
are wrapped in old wood from stores and buildings in Bluffton. 
This is the only store in Bluffton now. Others and gas stations are 20 miles north or 15 miles south.  Jodi 
would love to have a gas station in town, too.  
0 27 32 Jodi comments on retail work and shopping. 
0 28 36 Jodi enjoys her work because it is hers and it’s very welcoming. It’s part of the farm but more 
accessible to people who may need to be eased into what the farm does in the abattoirs. “Ten different 
species are slaughtered and processed at the farm, but there’s a nursery of baby goats in the back here that 
customers can peek at as well.” 
0 30 05 Jodi describes downtown Bluffton: population, demographics, safety considerations, friendliness and 
helpfulness. She wants to bring younger people here, and the farm wants to put in housing for employees and 
others who want to live and work here. 
0 32 31 A typical day for Jodi starts at 6:30 a.m., with the store unlocked by 8:00am. “We start the weenies 
cooking and turn on the ice cream machine. Workers clock in and buy their morning snacks, then return 
around 9:15 for sausages…” Jodi comes in to her office to check email and voice mail and respond “to 
people calling about cabins and the farm.” She then switches to tours which start around 10:30 a.m. “Then 
the store gets busy or we do inventory or go to dad’s office in the courthouse or the administrative offices in 
the church where our accounting, comptroller, and human resources people work. Dad comes to the store 
between 9:15 and 9:30 for his sausage. Then I usually go to the plant and talk with Jenni.” 
0 35 49 Jodi discusses how the general store fits within the the WOP business model. “Everything is very 
departmental.” She purchases inventory (e.g. eggs, tallow goods, leather and meat) “like any other wholesale 
customer.” She discusses how keeping financial track of inventory within the farm company provides 
information about “what is profitable and is on track.” Jodi discusses accounting software. 
0 38 19 On crafting the story of WOP and presenting it. Jodi describes how this important work is done by 
her sister and father. 
0 40 22 Jodi shares personal memories about meeting her husband, John, in college (now the farm’s livestock 
director), knowing herself and her love of her family and the Bluffton and farm life and how that all 
informed her life’s choices. Jodi says that she and her sisters are blessed to have found partners who want to 
be at the farm with them.  
0 45 19 The one thing that Jodi would like to change “is having the store become more important, having 
people want to make it a stop, and wanting to see the city of Bluffton grow.” And now that she’s going on 
maternity leave, she wants her staff to function as she does. To this end, she trains them on the sales floor, 
has them accompany her on tours, and gives them information that they make their own to share with 
customers. She discusses the pride and trust she has for her team, “They’re doing a good job, with everyone 
leaning on one another.” 
0 47 00 End 
  of  
3
3