NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview: March 23, 2017 
Rivera, Jamie ~ Oral History Interview 
Madeleine Hall-Arber 
Rivera, Jaime. Interview by Madeleine Hall-Arber. Workers on the New Bedford 
Waterfront. New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. Date of interview: March 23, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Jaime Rivera [JR] 
Facts about this person: 
Age: 28 years old 
Sex: Male 
Occupation: Nightshift supervisor 
Residence: New Bedford 
Ethnic background: Puerto Rican 
Interviewer: Madeleine Hall-Arber [MH] 
Transcriber: Sara Salem [SS] 
Interview location: Norpel Plant, New Bedford 
Date of interview: March 23, 2017 
Key Words 
Norpel, pallet, packing, AFAK machine, temporary people, nightshift, grinder, women workers 
Abstract 
Jaime Rivera was bom in Puerto Rico in 1989. He came to New Bedford in 2006 and found a job 
at Norpel in 2007. He describes working his way up from packer to nightshift supervisor. He 
speaks about learning to work on new equipment, temporary and permanent workers, and that his 
work is not easy but he likes all of it. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
2 
Index 
[00:00] Intro; Jaime Rivera was born in Puerto Rico 1989. He came to New Bedford in 2006 
because he had family there. He started working at Norpel in 2007 where he began by packing 
pallets. He learned to work on the AFAK machine, learned to speak English, and became a 
nightshift supervisor. He married a woman from New Bedford. 
[05:00] He answers questions about his normal work day, who he works with, his hours, and 
when he is paid. 
[10:07] He describes learning to use grinder. He has two daughters. Only one woman from 
Maine works temporarily at the plant. His wife works, but not in the fishing industry. He would 
advise someone else to work in the industry. He wants to go the Fishing Heritage Museum this 
summer. 
[15:00] His job is not easy, but he likes all parts of it. He’s not sure what he will be doing 15 
years from now, but he would like to drive trucks. He dives forks lifts and has a permit to drive a 
truck. 
[18:35] End of Audio 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
3 
[00:00] 
Madeline Hall-Arber: So today is March 23, 2017 and this is an interview for the New Bedford 
Fishing Heritage Center funded by an Archie Green fellowship from the Library of Congress. As 
part of this project we're interviewing shoreside workers in the New Bedford, Fairhaven fishing 
industry to record their stories, document their skills and knowledge and better understand their 
important role in the fishing industry. The recording and the transcript will become part of the 
permanent collection at the Library of Congress. I'm Madeleine Hall-Arber and today I am 
speaking with Jaime Riviera. 
Jaime Rivera: Rivera. 
MH: Yes, okay. Good. And the time is almost 1:00. So, can you introduce yourself and tell me 
what your job is? 
JR: Supervisor employees on nightshift. 
MH: And what's the company's name? 
JR: Norpel. 
MH: And when and where were you born? 
JR: Puerto Rico. 
MH: Oh, okay. 
JR: Then I was [undecipherable] in Puerto Rico. 
MH: And when was that? What year? 
JR: January 19, 1989. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
4 
MH: And did you grow up mostly in Puerto Rico? 
JR: Yes. I come here in 2006. 
MH: Okay. And what made you decide to come here to New Bedford? 
JR: In December 2006. 
MH: No, but why did you come here? 
JR: Oh, I have family here, thaf s why. 
MH: All right, is anybody in your family in the fishing industry? 
JR: No. 
MH: So how did you end up at Norpel? 
JR: I applied and start working at Norpel in 2007. 
MH: And what was your first job? 
JR: Packing down there on the pallet. Bringing the pallet. 
MH: And so how did you, what other jobs did you do while you were here, since 2006? 
JR: On the AFAK machine packing, now I do everything. I know about eveiything. 
MH: So, you started with packing but then what was the second thing? 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
JR: On the AFAK machine. This packing the product in boxes. 
MH: Okay, and then after that? 
JR: After that... 
MH: Because you do everything now. 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: How did you learn everything? 
JR: A little bit here, over there so. This way I learn everything. 
MH: Watching mostly? 
JR: Yeah, watching mostly. 
MH: So you learned on the job? 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: Did anybody teach you? 
JR: On the AFAK machine, yeah. One guy teach me. So... 
MH: And you liked it? 
JR: Yeah. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
MH: So that's why you're still here? 
JR: That's right. I'm still here. 
MH: Let's see. What brought your family to New Bedford? 
JR: Thaf s a good question. I don't know. So, my cousin living here, so he told me about coming 
here and he give a hand. So this why I come here in New Bedford. So I come here, my father 
come here, my mother. The family come here so... 
MH: So was your first job in New Bedford, here? 
JR: Here, at Norpel. 
MH: Good. And how did you learn to speak English so well? 
JR: Over here. I try to speak with the people. 
MH: That's great. 
JR: Yeah. Well the first time here I not speaking English. Nothing. 
MH: Really? 
JR: Nothing, nothing, nothing. 
MH: You do very well. 
JR: Yeah. That my wife told me. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
7 
MH: Good. So you're - you met your wife here? 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: Okay. And is she from New Bedford? 
JR: Yeah. From New Bedford. 
[5:00] 
MH: So what is your typical workday? What do you do when you first come in? 
JR: Drink coffee. 
MH: Okay! 
JR: Every time. Tell to the guys whatever need to do. 
MH: So I understand that a lot of the workers are people who have been working here for a 
while, right? But sometimes you get temporary people come in, is that difficult? Do you have to 
teach the people that come in from the agencies? 
JR: Yeah, teach the people. Tell whatever need to do and that’s it. It’s normal for all the places 
here. Mostly I have people already know. I tell the guy, explain to the guy. Sometimes 
[indistinguishable] down there. Sometimes the guy give me hand. 
MH: So whaf s the hardest part of your job? 
JR: When some people not come. Like the [indistinguishable] guy or the drive forklift, need to 
do it. Little hard for me. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
8 
MH: Yeah. How about - what do you like best about your job? 
JR: The best, when the boat come with fish, everything. 
MH: Because it's busy? 
JR: Busy, yeah. 
MH: What's - normally you work what hours? When do you start work and when do you end 
usually, most days? 
JR: The most days 7:00 or 6:00. No have time to leave. Whatever time done the job. 
MH: Say that again? 
JR: Whatever time done the job. 
MH: Okay. And then when it's the busiest - when the boats come in and you're very busy, do the 
hours change? 
JR: Yeah. Nightshift 6:00 to 6:00. 6:00 PM to 6:00 AM. 
MH: And is that when the temporary people have to come in? 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: Yeah, that's what I figured. So, what would you say is the best job at the factory, at Norpel? 
JR: I don’t know. I like eveiything, so I don't complain about nothing. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
9 
MH: How about other people, do other people complain very much? 
JR: Sometimes. 
MH: But the people that work here regularly, they seem like - it seems like there's a group of 
people. 
JR: Yeah, like working every day, they're permanent people. 
MH: So how often do you get paid, is it every week? Every month? 
JR: Every week. 
MH: And do you, are there, is there anything special that you have to do like certain tools or 
certain clothes, or whatever. Is there anything that somebody off the street would not know 
about? That you have to do or you... 
JR: No. 
MH: Have you noticed any changes since you started working here? Either in the plant or in 
industry as a whole? Has anything changed that you've seen? 
[10:07] 
JR: The change... 
MH: I know that they started grinding. Because that's new, right? 
JR: Thaf s new. That is changed. Something new. They grind. 
MH: So how did you learn what to do with that? Did -1 know that they bought grinders. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: But I wouldn't know what to do a grinder. So did they have somebody come in? 
JR: Eoin teach me on the grinder. 
MH: So when people are in the plant, are they mostly speaking Spanish? 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: When you have children, do you want them to work here? 
JR: I have two girls. Maybe. 
MH: I know that there's at least one woman here, Jacki. Jacqueline. 
JR: Yeah. Jacqueline. 
MH: Are there many other women who work in the plant? 
JR: She work on the plant - for now, no. The boat come, the temporary people yes, sometime. 
Pick the fish. Picking. From [indistinguishable] woman. 
MH: And does that ever create a problem? 
JR: No. 
MH: Okay. Does your wife work? 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
11 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: Does she work in the fishing industry? 
JR: No. 
MH: So, if somebody was arriving in New Bedford what would your advice be to them? Should 
they look for a job in the fishing industry or would you advise them to do something else? 
JR: Yeah, I advise to the fishing. A lot of people not like it, but. 
MH: And why do people not like it? 
JR: The smell of fish. Like my cousin. Tried. 
MH: Didn't like it? 
JR: Other friends, yeah, like it. 
MH: So do you live in New Bedford? 
JR: Yeah. 
MH: And that's comfortable? 
JR: Yeah, I like it. 
MH: So have you ever been to the Heritage Museum, the Fishing Heritage Museum? It's a new 
museum. It's very near the Whaling Museum. It's small, but it talks all about the fishing industry 
including shore side positions, including processing and so on. You and your wife should come 
by sometime and visit it. Because it's free right now. So it would be a good time. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
12 
JR: Yeah, my wife told me, we'll go there with my daughter for some time I have a chance. I'll 
try to go this summer. 
MH: If s only open Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. 
JR: Yeah 
MH: The reason I was - part of the reason I was asking that is - one of the reasons we're doing 
this project is to develop an exhibit so that we can show what if s like to work in the fishing 
industry here in New Bedford. So is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think I 
should have or anything you think would be important to tell people who are coming to the 
museum about your kind of work? 
[15:00] 
Ifs not a test. I'm just asking. I'm just curious about whether... what would you like people to 
know about the kind of work you do or how hard you work or how easy it is, whatever. 
JR: Nothing is easy. 
MH: What do you like best about working? 
JR: The best we... 
MH: Just everything? You mentioned before you liked doing everything. 
JR: Yeah, everything. 
MH: And you like staying busy? 
JR: Yeah. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
MH: So maybe somebody who is like you that likes to stay busy, should think about the fishing 
industry. 
JR: Yes. 
MH: Because it changes a lot, right? 
JR: Yeah, does different things all the time. 
MH: What would you, in say 15 years from now, you're not getting old yet but you're older, what 
would you like to see yourself doing? 
JR: I don't know yet. 
MH: Well, you're young. 
JR: I am young. 
MH: It's hard to know the future, but it's fun to think about sometimes, to see. 
JR: Yeah, I know. 
MH: I mean is there anything here in the plant that you would like eventually to do that you don't 
do yet? 
JR: Like drive trucks. Something I like. We'll see in the future. 
MH: What was that? 
JR: We'll see in the future. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
14 
MH: Yes, yes. 
JR: I don't know yet. 
MH: Do you know how to dive a fork lift? Right? 
JR: Yeah. I drive fork lift and drive the truck to 23,000 pounds. 
MH: Oh. 
JR: Yeah. I drive the regular truck. 
MH: Did you have to get a special license for that? 
JR: No, only the permit. 
MH: Okay. 
JR: The legal permit. 
MH: I know that sometimes there are special programs for people to get more permits, you 
know, to get additional permits. 
JR: Yeah. I don't know yet about that. 
MH: Whatever they need, maybe they'll train you. 
JR: I'm good. 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
15 
MH: Good. Well, I can't think of anything else. If you think of anything that I should know, you 
can tell me. Well, thank you very much. 
JR: You're welcome. 
MH: Good luck. If s not so difficult, huh? 
[18:35] End of audio 
Interview with Jaime Rivera, March 23, 2017 
16