Kentucky Folklife Program 
Interview Transcription 
 
Project name:  Ranger Lore (LOCRP) 
Field ID and name: #0034; Jerry Bransford 
Interviewee:  Jerry Bransford 
Interviewer/Recordist:  Brent Björkman 
Date:  June 30, 2014 
Location:  Glendale, KY 
Others Present:   
Equipment used:  Tascam DR-60D 
Microphone:  Audio-Technica AT803B, lavalier mic 
Recording Format: WAV 
Recorded Tracks in Session: 1 audio track  
Duration: [00:57:58] 
Keywords: African American businesspeople—Interviews; African Americans—
Employment; children; children of working parents; discrimination in employment; 
diversity in the workplace; families; racism in the workplace; spiritual life 
Corresponding Materials:   
Documents: KFP2014LOCRP_0034_BBms0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0030_BBms0003 
Videos: KFP2014LOCRP_0034_BBmv0001 - KFP2014LOCRP_0030_BBmv0010 
Audio: KFP2014LOCRP_0030_BBsr0001 
Context:  
Technical Considerations:   
Transcription prepared by: Eleanor Hasken; edited by Hannah Davis 
 
Transcribing Conventions:  
Use of square brackets [ ] indicates a note from the transcriber. 
Use of parentheses (  ) indicates a conversational aside.  
Use of em dash — indicates an interruption of thought or conversation. 
Use of ellipses … indicates a discontinued thought. 
Use of quotations “ “ indicates dialogue within conversation. 
Use of italics indicates emphasis. 
Use of underline indicates movie, magazine, newspaper, or book titles. 
Names of interviewee and interviewer are abbreviated by first and last initial letters. 
Time is recorded in time elapsed by the convention [hours:minutes:seconds]. 
 
Note:  This transcription is as accurate and complete as possible.  In any question of 
interpretation, the researcher is referred to the recording itself as the primary document 
representing this event. 
[time elapsed in hours:minutes:seconds] 
 
[00:00:00] 
 
Brent Björkman: Okay, today is June 30th, 2014. This is Brent Björkman, the director 
of the Kentucky Folklife Program. We're continuing on our interview series, um, having 
to do with our Ranger Lore project, the Working Lives of Park Rangers. We are here in 
Glendale, Kentucky, and we are talking to a special guest today. Could you tell me your 
name and your current position with the Park Service? 
Jerry Bransford: Jerry Bransford, and I'm a seasonal tour guide for Mammoth Cave 
National Park.  
BB: Well, Mr. Bransford, um, I know that you have a deep connection to the park in a 
number of ways, and I've been asking people about how they got connected to the park, 
and uh, could we start off by you maybe sharing a little bit of that with me? 
JB: Well, my connection to the park goes back in the 1830s, Thomas Bransford of 
Nashville. Uh, I didn't know the entire story, but I knew, um, three generations of 
Bransford -- even as a young, young kid, my daddy, uncles, aunts, and kinfolk, but after 
been introduced to Joy Lyons, uh, some years ago, I found out there was actually a 
generation-and-a-half more of Bransfords than I actually, than I really knew about.  
BB: Wow. And, did you -- so your connections to Joy, you were -- your connection to 
the, to the park itself, as a guide, um, that wasn't an early part of your life? Or was it an 
early part of your life? Did you start guiding after you were in the public -- 
JB: Yes. 
BB: Public sector for a while.  
JB: I had 30 years with the Magi Corporation in Elizabethtown, Kentucky, and I retired 
June 22, 2012. Excuse me.  
BB: That's alright.  
JB: Uh, June of 2002, and uh, and I, I had talked to Joy Lyons a while ago and thought 
over the years we had communicated and exchanged documentation and stories and 
things she was showing me through my father. And after retiring, she asked me if I was, 
if I was interested in becoming a tour guide and uh, had a lot of reservations about it that 
I'd already been into the bigger arena for 30 years and I just didn't know if I wanted to go 
another place at 57 years old and having to learn everything. But after thinking about and 
giving it thought, I felt that I owed myself and my ancestors, uh, my assignment at 
Mammoth Cave as tour guide. I wanted to bring the Bransfords back.  
BB: What year was that, that you, you mulled this over an-and-and you started the 
orientation and started going into the cave as a guide? 
JB: Well, actually started tour guiding 2004, but I had several interviews and I had 
already been invited to Mammoth Cave National Park for History Month, that I would do 
a presentation there in the auditorium for Joy Lyons. And that really developed my 
interested and, and so being fascinated with my family story, I realized that there's 
even more uh, than I knew about it. And I was really motivated to tell everybody, kinda, 
what I know and some things that happen to my ancestors. Some of the things were 
happy and than that -- as time went on I realized some things were quite sad disasters, but 
it's all the American story and I wanted to make sure that I did the best job that I, that I 
could to let the world know what happened down there. Beginning in 1838 until 1941.  
BB: Oh. What were -- did you grow up with? It sounds like you knew some, and then 
you learned, you did some of your own research but also through your colleague Joy 
Lyons, uh, learned some. ‘Cause she was working on, I think she was also -- an interest 
of hers I think was also the African American story, was that true? 
JB: That's true. Joy Lyons would see these, uh, photos in the Curtorial, and they all said 
Stephen Bishop, and they couldn't have all been Stephen Bishop. Some of these, Stephen 
Bishop had been gone 120 years, so it's just several different things that came together 
coincidentally. And, um, my dad told me a lot of stories about Nick Ransford, who's been 
buying his way from slavery in Mammoth Cave. My dad told me about old ancestors 
losing children to slave buyers before the Civil War, and uh, but he didn't see to know 
much about Matt, the first Matt. He knew about Henry, my great-grandfather and third 
generation, third generation guys, but he didn't seem to know about Matt and Joy Lyons 
is the person that introduced me to Matt, first generation, who was actually filed up by 
Thomas Bransford of Nashville and leased to Franklin Noin along with Nick Ransford.  
BB: Hmm. 
JB: So there was actually more back there, than I, than I really knew about. It was quite a 
fascinating story. I was fascinated that I knew about Henry, my great-grandfather, but 
they were -- but it was quite powerful and amusing about Matt, first Matt.  
BB: Mhmm. 
JB: He and Parthena how they lost those children and the interview of James Rushing 
Fowler, the Union soldier and abolitionist, you know?   
[00:05:11]  
BB: Mhmm. 
JB: So all that really sparked, uh, interest for me. And, particularly considering how my 
ancestors left. They left under duress. Uh, they didn't really want to go, uh -- I felt there 
was a lot of injustice in that. I felt that as time went on, I owed it to the family and to the 
public to bring the Bransfords back. That I had such a great opportunity to do, to do 
things that some men never had the opportunity to do.  
BB: Mhmm. And tell that story.  
JB: Tell that story and I, and I -- they were never grandfather to the National Park 
uniform, none of the men of color were. And, uh, I understand that a lot of the Caucasian 
guys would give them the choice, but none of my ancestors wore it. And uh, I feel that I 
owed them that tribute to work there for a while.  
BB: Mhmm. How do you bring that story in? What tours do you guide? Do you guide the 
wide range of all of the tours? 
JB: Uh, we got a wide range of tours. Historic tours, probably, and the uh, the discovery 
tour is probably is the greatest opportunity to talk about the slave ancestors and the 
saltpeter bats and the black men and their contribution to the cave. We all do all the tours, 
but the historic tours actually allows me to walk in the foot steps of ancestors that were 
there over a 100 and 1 years before I ever -- before I came there. 
BB: Mhmm. 
JB: I see their names and dates along the route, probably at least five along the historical 
route, and just the other day a young person came and told me that they found Clifton's 
name down Audubon Avenue. A signature and date I had never seen before.  
BB: So you're always learning as well.  
JB: Always learning andI'm quite fascinated how deep into the cave some, some of my 
ancestor's names are found. Deep, dreadful places. Their's actually a Bransford Avenue in 
the cave, name for Will Bransford, my second cousin. He was part of the exploring team 
that found Cathedral Dome in 1906.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: He's also the Bransford that escorted, gypsum, natural gypsum formations and a little 
slave -- a little Indian, Native American girl's remains, named Little Alice to the 1893 
World's Fair in Chicago.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: Well, so, that's fascinating to know what he did and, uh, that he was actually up in 
Chicago for several months. That he, that he was a representative for Mammoth Cave to 
the Columbia Exhibit in Chicago.  
BB: Mmm. What are some of the things that you try to impart to people, not that I 
necessarily give me a part -- 
JB: Mm. 
BB: Part of your, your speech to the public, um. Or, maybe give me a little bit of that. I 
think it's just an interesting thing that you have this legacy that you're getting across and 
the feedback must be pretty amazing for people when-when they have a tour from you, to 
learn these things from your family.  
JB: Uh, uh, I think that the things I would really want to do, is to, let everybody know 
Mammoth Cave is a wonderful cave system. Internationally renowned. Not only a 
Bransford, but I want to let people know that people, men and women of color have a 
vital role in it's success in the earlier days. For many years, none of these stories were 
told. So I feel that I am glad and have responsibility to let everybody know, uh, their roles 
and the things they experience in the cave. I'm not trying to give them more than they 
deserve, but certainly I don't want to come away feeling that like the first 63 years that it 
became a national park that they really weren't given what they did deserve.  
BB: Mm, mm, yeah. How was your introduction. You came into this later and thought 
about helping to fulfill this idea by telling the story of your family. How did you –- 
what’s the, what's the training like? You know, we're talking about working culture and, 
and working with different people. Um, you know. Do you start out by guiding a tour? 
Some of, some people have talked about you start out by trailing a tour and listening to 
someone else. Um. Because, you had talked to Joy Lyons about this, this importance of 
telling the African American story, was your training -- was it different or anything that 
you know of? Or -- 
JB: My training wasn't different. I, um -- I wanted to be careful when I came that -- uh, 
that I wasn't sure, being 57 years old, taking a brand new job after being somewhere 30 
years, it's just a whole lot of things came to mind, but after getting down there, I realized 
that folks treated me better than any place I'd ever been. They treated me quite well. I had 
reservations about going because, uh, there are stories, there are stories inside me, that I 
remember, being a very young kind going to Mammoth Cave as a young person in the 
50s and 60s and you know, we, we couldn't go inside the restaurants. You know? Those 
people weren't necessarily unkind in telling me that you, that coloreds can't come into the 
restaurant, but uh, but uh -- all these things have to do with the mixed feelings I had 
wanting to become a tour guide. I knew that there would obviously be training and some 
things that are required, every job I've ever had there's certain things that's required. But I 
just -- I didn't know what my fit would be and I found that my fit's quite great. I'm glad to 
be a part of the team. Um, I can't imagine people treating me kinder and nicer than what I 
receive at Mammoth Cave, but I didn't want the story and the legacy that Bransfords told 
to overpower what I was there for in the first place. And it seems to date that that hasn't 
happened.  
[00:10:56]  
BB: Mmm.  
JB: Did that get close to your question?  
BB: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.  
JB: Okay.  
BB: No, I'm just trying to figure out -- because it is such a unique situation. And uh, I 
guess some stories about your family -- I would like to hear some of those, because it is 
unique. I know you've, you may have shared those with other people. We've talked a little 
bit, you have been interviewed more than one time, but I think for the Library of 
Congress it would be great to share, maybe a chronology, a little bit of the things you 
share on your trip about the particular persons that are connected to the cave, uh, from the 
Bransford line. You know.  
JB: Well, it all began with Thomas Bransford of Nashville. Thomas Bransford of 
Nashville. As a matter of fact, there's a Bransford Avenue in 
Nashville, Tennessee, today.  
BB: Wow.  
JB: And [indistinguishable] that's named from a one Thomas Bransford, who 
was business partner and associates with Franklin Gorin, who owned the cave in 1838. 
That history says that Franklin Gorin owns Stephen Bishop, he pays $5,000 for the cave, 
but the idea of tourism, but it appeared a short times goes by and he realizes that Stephen 
Bishop is not able to accomplish all the things that's required of him. So, he speaks to 
Thomas Bransford of Nashville who was also a slave owner. Thomas Bransford of 
England were quite well-to-do. Bransford Avenue in Nashville is again named for him. 
So, he sends up Matt Bransford, my great-great-grandfather, and Matt was 16 years of 
age. And Nick Bransford, who was really -- we found that more recent years that he and 
Nick were not really brothers. They only shared their owner's last name. But we have 
proper documentation in Thomas Bransford's record book, who is owned by Pat 
Bransford-Davis of Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas, area, actually Morgan Mill, Texas, that she 
has the record books and it makes it very clear that Thomas Bransford knows that he 
knows that he was Matt Bransford's father. So he leases Matt to Franklin Gorin and Nick 
for 100,000 years slave guides and explorers.  
BB: And that would have been -- the years? 
JB: 1838. And then in 1849, when old Thomas Bransford passes away, Matt's brother -- 
Matt's half-brother inherits him. And he continues to lease him to Franklin Gorin.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: Well, of course, by now, let me make a correction, Franklin Gorin only keeps the 
cave one year and sells it to Dr. Croghan of Louisville. But, Nick and Matt are continued 
to be leased by their owner, their half-brother, Thomas Bransford of Nashville. Thomas 
Bransford, Jr.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: I find it fascinating that, um, that -- that a person can be inherited by their half-
brother or sister.  
BB: Yes, absolutely.  
JB: ‘Cause that's like you, um, course at that time, the way that we were doing things, he 
was just property, a slave.  
BB: Mhmm. 
JB: But I find it difficult to comprehend that, that your half-brother inherits you.  
BB: Mhmm. And they're guiding, do we know from the public record what their work 
was like? Guiding and -- 
JB: Well, uh, public record says that they were quite the well-renowned celebrities. 
Seemed that Nick, Matt, and Stephen Bishop had gotten along pretty well because I think 
that they were very important young boys and they realized that they had a unique 
situation, like, uh, I'm sure that, uh, there were probably other slave, so to speak, in the 
neighborhood that realized that these fellas are entertaining national crowds. I mean, 
they're not in the barn lots and the hay fields. They're working in the cave and directing 
and taking care of free people. Free people. People of royalty. Educated people. Depend 
on slaves to take them on all-day walks and take good care of them. So it seems that, 
Franklin Gorin and Dr. Croghan, uh, have told their guests to follow the slaves' direction 
to the letter, although, we also have material that suggests that some free people had 
difficulty, maybe have slightly raised their voice at them, but the slaves were interested in 
keeping their job and the safety of their old boss' guest.  
BB: Mhmm. 
[00:15:21]  
JB: So, if he had a good job, you did whatever you could to keep – to hold on to it and 
maintain it, you know? 
BB: Right.  
JB: And that's what they did. Kings and queens. Free people. Depended on them. 
Grateful to have them.  
BB: Yeah. And things changed, maybe. After -- from the surface, when you get down 
there with your guides.  
JB: Absolutely. Absolutely. As a matter of fact, we have material that, that supports that 
perhaps Franklin Gorin had heard about the slaves having lunch with people from 
England, even though they, um, depended on the slaves to take care of them on long, 
dangerous hikes in the cave. They were reprimanded. You're not supposed to eat with 
free people. So, I take that, uh, Matt and Nick are stealing, but cordially declining an 
invitation to have lunch with free people and they would, they say, go to the other side of 
the cave trail and have lunch with themselves.  
BB: Mhmm.  
JB: But it seems that the folks from England didn't have the issue. And I don't know that 
all American whites did. But it seems that we know the most about people from foreign 
countries that were so grateful for their careship of them, that they would often, "Come to 
the grand table and eat with us. We want you over here." And maybe perhaps they did 
that and they were told not to do that anymore.  
BB: Yeah, I was, I was wondering about the -- I've heard things about the education of 
the -- Matt and Nick and Stephen.  
JB: Mhmm. 
BB: Meeting these people and, um, they're speaking different languages at some times. 
They've probably learned little bits of other languages and, did that, do you know if that 
propelled them to do some studying on their own? And about the world and, you know, 
made them much more worldly any other African American counterparts.  
JB: I think it did make them more worldly. I think that the information and the exposure 
that they received from free people really enlightened them about the outside world. 
Stephen suggested that those slaves-those slave guides might have known more about the 
outside world than free whites, because I take if you're in a cave with a dentist or a 
geologist or scientist, um, you are probably fascinated that they ask you to direct them, 
but also you would bend an ear to absorb all the information that you could. So they did 
know a little of geology and science and some said that they could speak Greek and 
words of German, and those kinds of things.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: And there's places in the cave that I'm satisfied that the handwriting and so forth is so 
neat. For example, a signature for Nick Bransford in the Snowball Room is such a neat 
signature that I'm satisfied that a educated free white wrote that tribute to Nick on the 
cave wall in the Snowball Room. Don't think Nick could write that, that perfectly.  
BB: Mhmm. How long after this – after, uh, 1865 and the rest of your family legacy did 
it -- is it a continuous legacy? Uh, with the Bransfords? And uh, in the cave and guiding 
for the most part?  
JB: It's, it's continuous. They -- um, the Bransfords there and, of course, Matt was still 
there. Henry was still there. Matt's son, uhm, by, by now, Matt, the first Matt -- first 
generation, had lost three children. He'd lost three girls and a boy to slave buyers. But, 
uh, fortunate enough Henry was kept on. And so, um, it seemed that Matt didn't know 
much about the outside world and he taught his son Henry the tricks to the trade and the 
guiding skills that he chose to stay on. Old folks in my family that Matt said, "I don't 
know so much about the outside world and I feel good here at Mammoth Cave, so old 
boss said he'll pay me now to stay on, so I think I'll stay here. This is a good enough job 
for me." That's what my Daddy said old folks told him.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: And we did stay. That's how we became residents of Mammoth Cave, which 
eventually became a national park.  
BB: Mhmm. So your --  Bransfords were displaced when the park was created.  
JB: Oh absolutely. Yes.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: As a matter of fact, Matt Bransford, third generation, my great-uncle, had a hotel-
resort, up down Flint Ridge and down Great Arch Road. I know where the foundation of 
it is today.  
BB: Hmm.  
[00:19:50]  
JB: And it's only two places in America that was rated for people of color to stay in the 
‘20s by people of color to stay by AAA Travel Club and Matt Bransford of Mammoth 
Cave was the number two listing of places recommended. If you were traveling and you 
needed a recommended place to stay, Matt Bransford’s hotel was on the AAA list. And it 
was quite something to see too.  
BB: Wow.  
JB: Quite a hotel. Quite a resort. I have 20 post cards in my basement, down in my file, 
that we found in the old house that are just invaluable to our family.  
BB: Of the hotel property?  
JB: Yes, absolutely. Uncirculated postcards. 
BB: Wow. I'd love to see that.  
JB: It's on the internet.  
BB: Okay.  
JB: Yeah.  
BB: Mhmm.  
JB: He was going to board a train, he and his wife Zimmie. He and Zimmie were quite, 
quite respected in the neighborhood. Blacks and whites respected Zimmie and Matt. 
Now, why they had no children that -- Louis and John Henry, my grandfather, and 
Charles Wesley, my dad's grandfather's brother -- they had large families. But for some 
reason, Matt and Zimmie didn't seem to be able to have children.  
BB: Mmm.  
JB: So they would have nieces and nephews over to their house and work around the 
garden and work in the hotel for them. But the hotel was quite something to see.  
BB: How long did that -- so that -- when the -- when the park was taken over, is that 
when that --  
JB: Demolished. Demolished. There's quite a stressful letter that can be read in 
Mammoth Cave Library that Matt goes to -- I'm going to assume that it was Judge 
Jennings. Judge Jennings was in charge of the Mammoth Cave estate. And this Matt is 
third generation and the letter sort of worded, in my own words, is that he hears about the 
take over coming into place -- coming into existence and he's worried about losing his 
hotel, he's worried about losing his job. I don't know if he was as worried about losing his 
job as a tour guide as he was losing his property and the hotel. He simply says, "Judge, I 
was born here. My daddy was born here and his daddy before him. Is there a chance that 
we could be spared?" He says, "I'm having sleepless nights thinking about this." But 
eventually all the men of color were called in at a specific time. My daddy said that we 
were to document it, I think, that none of the men of color were going to be kept on as 
tour guides. So, they were alerted that perhaps a year-and-a-half in advance that this 
National Park thing is coming, so you need to think about what you're going to be doing 
for employment because probably there will be no men of color in a uniform. So, my 
ancestors actually told me a little bit about that.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: That the Bransfords were actually required to train their successors. And they did it 
with dignity.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: But also, my grandfather's brother, Matt, third generation, never came back to 
Mammoth Cave or anything. He said he wanted to remember it like it was. I just imagine 
there was a certain amount of emotional hurt there.  
BB: What did, what did your ancestors that were guiding, what did they do following 
their training these people.  
JB: Clifton Bransford worked on the colored work team. Clifton Bransford's name can be 
found Camp 510, down River Room, up the steps. He was part of the colored work team, 
Clifton. Sometimes I walk up there while I'm trailing a tour and I walk up in that cove 
where Clifton left his name and I know where his 1924, uh, this why Clifton was still 
acting, working as a guide, but even working in the cave all your life, being a tour guide -
- fourth generation. In order for you to stay in the area, you become a pick and shovel 
guy. Now, I'm not saying there's anything wrong with being a pick and shovel guy, but I 
find myself -- it almost brings tears to my eyes. I wonder, how would it be, that you're 
working for a old boss in a place where you were literally born up and raised. You're 
nobody but a pick and shovel guy working on tour routes that you've toured all your life. 
And then when those -- and his brother Elsey, Elsey was a real renowned tour guide. 
Elsey moved to Glasgow, I knew -- we called it Maca-Elsey, he was actually my second-
cousin. So much older than me. We called him Elsey, Uncle Elsey. But Clifton moved to 
Indianapolis, Indiana. And Joy Lyons and delegation from Mammoth Cave National Park 
found Clifton by my Daddy and then went to Indianapolis and interviewed him. I have a 
VHS move, that same movie is in the library at Mammoth Cave. And you know, Those 
tour routes that I walk on today didn't mean as much until I'd seen the VHS movie, per 
Joy Lions and the Delegation at Mammoth Cave, but he would talk about Little Bat 
Avenue and he would talk about the Bottomless Pit and the Corkscrew and after coming 
to work there some years later, all that real had a true meaning, that Clifton had been 
there way before I'd gotten there. He was gracious fella, but we called him Doc.  
BB: Hmm.  
[00:25:05]  
JB: And he was the king of the guides around [indistinguishable] were respected, but I 
wonder how he felt when he asked for his last day. He moved to Indianapolis, Indiana 
and became a janitor for Indiana Power and Light, but can you imagine the information 
and the skill and the knowledge he took with him? But I credit Joy Lyons, that she had an 
interest and that she found him. And they had a really nice interview. You can see that 
interview, too.  
BB: Mhmm. Is that something that-that the Mammoth Cave and this work that you do, do 
they, they give you time to do your own research? Or do they -- do they -- is that 
something they want you to do? Try to look up things on your own? Increase your own 
knowledge of your story that you can share.  
JB: Well, absolutely. They encourage us to do all our own research. I feel blessed. I think 
I know what happened in my family. Even from England to Nashville. I feel sad that 
there were generations ahead of me that knew some of the story, they didn't really know -
- my dad died in 2002, but he didn't know the whole story. And I have cousins and nieces 
and grandchildren that I'm sharing the information I have because I think I know what 
happened. They pass away not knowing what happened, but you know, I think I know the 
story. I know what happened that they came to Nashville. I think I know what from 
Nashville to Mammoth Cave and I have a good idea of the whole thing. So, I'm making 
sure that my children and grandchildren, that Mammoth Cave is kind enough for us to 
have a family reunion. And they allow me to take family members on guided tours. It’s a 
private tour, and I make sure that I share with them the information that I've absorbed 
over the last 30 years.  
BB: You hold a Bransford reunion at the park? 
JB: We do and uh -- 
BB: Is it a yearly thing? Can you tell me about it?  
JB: Well, about every two years. We're not going to have it -- we had it last year. Kathy 
Proffitt, day-to-day operations person, is kind enough to allow me to take my family and 
she's been very gracious about doing that. And Mammoth Cave National Park. Period. 
And even Joy Lions did. So, I get to tell them some of the things that I've learned. I tell 
them some things that they already know. But I share with them many of the things that 
I'm sure that they don't know. I want to make sure that when I'm gone from Mammoth 
Cave National Park, that the story doesn't go away again. It went a way for a while, when 
Clifton and Elsey and Louis Turner Keyes in ‘39. They were the last three. So there were 
60 plus years there wasn't much said. But I feel that I have opportunity to kind of bring 
them back, the Bransfords back. Hopefully telling the true document in a tasteful way. 
The whole story. The story of slavery. The story of Matt losing children. The story of 
them having happy days, escorting kings and queens through the cave. Free people 
depended on them. Matt Bransford been able to go to, Louisville, Kentucky during the 
Civil War and have his photo made. Free. He was in Louisville, Kentucky for several 
during the Civil War, they were such a celebrity that they invited him up and took him 
around Louisville and showed a slave around. That they were honored to have him, to 
come up and be their guest.  
[Phone ringing] 
BB: Hmm. You've been sharing these stories -- prideful stories of your family with your 
family. Do you have anybody in your family that's -- you think might take over the 
sharing of these stories for future generations? 
JB: I sure hope so. My daughters’ a healthcare professional. She has a lot of interest in 
the story. She's uh, a busy young wife with young children and college kids and grade 
school kids. My son knows what happened and, um, I hope it doesn't end here again.  
BB: Mhmm.  
JB: At 67, I worry that, um, you know, I'm grateful to be there, I can do the job quite 
well I think, but at 67, I couldn't possibly think about being there 20 more years ‘cause -- 
so I'm hoping that someone wants to come and that someone will come.  
BB: Yeah. Well it's such a vibrant story and I think that you're trajectory, you know, 
having this legacy, being born in this family, working outside of the context of the cave 
for many years, but you came back to it.  
JB: I did, being a little kid, growing up in Glasgow, mom and dad, daddy had this huge, 
big, black album. Had all these pictures in it. I used to, as a little kid, "Who is that, Dad?" 
"That's Will Bransford." "How am I kil-kin to Will?" He says, "Will is father's sister's 
son." I said, "What did Will do?" "Well, Will's a guide." "Well Daddy, what kind of 
guide?" "Well he's a guide at the cave. He took things to the World's Fair in Chicago. As 
a matter of fact, I'm going to tell you a story he told us when we were little kids." I said, 
"What's the story, Daddy?" He says, "Well, Will could pass for white. Will’s daddy -- 
there's a lot of white on both sides of the family. Will's father was a white man in Cave 
City. So Will was a very popular tour guide at Mammoth Cave, so the proprietor wanted 
Will to go down Specimen Avenue and take gypsum flowers and take this little 
mummified Native American girl's remains to Chicago. Now, we think, this is what my 
dad said, "We think that Will was very well liked, but Will could pass the lines of color 
quite easily. Hazel eyed, straight hair, very bright." You'd have to see a picture to know 
what I mean. So Will told my father, and the other kids, on the cabin porch, that he'd 
gotten aboard the train to Louisville, Kentucky, to go to Chicago. He says, "I wonder 
what it would be like to ride up front in the all-white car." So he says, "When the train 
got past Louisville, I just decided to ride up front." He said, "The conductor who was 
taking tickets never knew I was a man of color. And I never told him." Goes up to 
Chicago, he says, "I didn't really want to go to Chicago, because I hadn't been any further 
than Louisville or Nashville." But after getting to Chicago, I think he was really glad that 
he did. He says, "After we had been to Chicago for a few months, coming back, I rode in 
the all-white car, just because I could. But when I got near Louisville, Kentucky, I 
realized that I was getting close to the boundaries and I took my proper seat in the all-
colored car." And dad told me that story at least twice.  
[00:31:45]  
BB: Huh.  
JB: If you see a picture of Will, you can understand how Will -- very gracious, smart 
guide. Witty, quiet. You can find his name right before you go across Bottomless Pit. 
1893. It's a very nice one, too.  
BB: Mhmm.  
JB: J.F. Stephenson. Willy Bransford.  
BB: Hmm. It's just amazing to be able to point out the markings and the names of your -- 
JB: Joy Lyons showed me that. Hadn't been for Joy Lyons, none of this would be where 
it is, I think. I just feel that what's come together was meant to be. And then, about 30 
years ago again, Pat Davis, who was heir to Thomas Bransford in Nashville, comes to the 
Grand Ole Opry in Nashville, Tennessee, knowing that she's heir to Bransfords of 
Mammoth Cave, because she has the slave record business books of Thomas Bransford. 
So she says, "I'm in Nashville, Tennessee, let's go to Glasgow to see if we can find any of 
the Bransfords." She looks in the phone book and she sees David C. Bransford, my 
father. So she says, "Mr. Bransford, I'm Pat Davis, heir to Thomas Bransford, who we are 
satisfied that once owned your relatives." And she says, "I've got some history I think 
you'd be interested in. If you would like to know." But Dad said, "Just coincidentally, I 
have a cousin, uh, had a son in Glendale, his name is Jerry, and boy has he been pumping 
me for the last few years about the Bransford history. Maybe you'd like to meet him." 
Well, we met by phone, about 32 years ago. We've never met in person. But the 
information that she has in the record book is invaluable. It speaks of Nick and Matt, how 
much the owner received to have them at Mammoth Cave. Uh, that they were one of the 
Mammoth Cave and that Matt brings his mother some rocks from Mammoth Cave and a 
little slave girl said, "My boy, Matt, brought me some rocks from Mammoth Cave and 
nobody better never bother my rocks." And I think Matt had just found some pretty 
things in Mammoth Cave that he brought his mother. So it seems like that story, that Pat 
Davis has the record book, my interest in Joy Lyons, and then the Kellers of New 
Orleans, Louisiana, has this huge sketch of Matt Bransford. That they inherited, Mrs. 
Kellers's great-great grandfather was the artist who sketched Matt's picture in 1857. So 
this picture lay in their possession for years and they didn't know who Matt Bransford of 
Mammoth Cave was, so they come to Mammoth Cave with this huge sketch and Joy 
Lyons makes me aware of it and it's a very nice sketch of Matt. So these three things, uh, 
I truly feel were not just coincidental. I don't feel my appointment there at Mammoth 
Cave is just by chance. I really believe that I was meant to be here for a while. And I'm 
doing my best to be the best tour guide I can for a number of reasons. I feel like I have a 
great responsibility. Responsibility to the National Park Service that they took a chance 
on me becoming a tour guide, and also a responsibility to my family, that I want to make 
sure I tell people what happened and give them the best information that I can.  
BB: Mmm.  
[00:35:11]  
[Phone rings] 
BB: You shared a great lot, this is a great interview. Is there anything else that you 
wanted to say? I mean it's -- I think it's -- you got across that it's really a privilege. I think 
it's a privilege for me to be here, but also that you're being back in Kentucky, that you're 
here helping to tell this story from your own standpoint. Is there something you'd like to 
talk about, either future, or, uh, I mean, you've really articulated most of it, but is there 
anything you'd want to share, uh, more with me today?  
JB: I want to say, I would like to say, although Clifton, George, Elsey, Arthur, Elsey, at 
the time that it became a national park, there were a lot of Bransfords there. And if they 
could hear me and that they could know what I'm trying to do, my daddy, I just would 
say to them, “I'm doing the best I can on your behalf. I only get to tell the story because 
of what your accomplishments were, so I hope that my appointment there and the way I 
tell the story would please you.” If I  -- wish I could say that to my daddy. My daddy 
never got to see me come to Mammoth Cave. He died a, uh, year before I got in there. So 
I'd say, “Fellas, all you Bransford guides, at one time there were nine of you on the roster, 
I want you to know I'm doing the best I can for you. Hope to pick up the torch for a little 
while.” [laughs]  
BB: Sh -- 
JB: There's an interview with a union solider and abolitionist, he was at Mammoth Cave 
in 1863 and his name was James, uh, Fowler Rushing and he had heard about Matt and 
those children, and he had an interview with Matt. And he says to Matt, "Matt, it doesn't 
seem to bother you coloreds when you lose what you -- what we free whites call 
“children,” uh, and you call “chattels,” they say." And Matt said, "Oh no, captain, don't 
you believe that." He said, "Colored people have feelings just the same as white folks." 
He's, "Now I'm the man and I can take such things, although it went pretty hard for the 
old wife, her name was Pardina." He says, "When it comes to losing that last children, 
we'd seen so much of this thing that we turns up once and let her go and deal with it the 
best we can." He said, "Now that we get older, we get a good cabin and plenty of 
furniture, it seems that they work the Master Doyle now," they probably released out to 
the Doyle family. He says, "Master Doyle's not such a bad boss." He said, "We do good if 
we just had the children back." And sometimes, when I see his name, I wonder how he 
could have possibly endured. I have children and grandchildren, I can't imagine losing 
one. So, sometimes when I'm in the cave and I walk over there where his name is, and I 
try to place my feet where his foot might have been at the time, it's almost as though I can 
feel his agony and his happiness, too. I can’t imagine.  
[00:39:05]  
JB: 1906. When I go to Cathedral Dome, I feel like I'm just dwarfed, it's magnificent. 
Named it, named Bransford Avenue. That's never going to go away, as long as that cave 
is there, Bransford Avenue should be down there as a tribute to Will.  
BB: You did much caving until you came back? I mean? 
JB: I hadn't done any caving. I was busy with my wife and then raising children and 
doing all the stuff my kids do. But I felt, I felt a burning inside of me. I knew that there 
was more to that story than my daddy knew, but I didn't know how I was going to find 
out. But Joy Lyons, bless her heart.  
BB: She’s -- 
JB: She made me think she was in love with the Bransfords. In love with our story. And 
we're good friends.  
BB: Well she is! She is! She's a true, true shooter. She's a passionate -- 
JB: Yeah.  
BB: Historian and folklorist. And park employee. Former park employee.  
JB: And just recently, we have something sent to me that suggests that Matt Bransford 
was actually able to get one of those girls back after the Civil War and I think it was 
Will's mother. See, Will Bransford, the Bransford that escorted those things to the 
World's Fair, was born out of wedlock. He assumed his mother's maiden name. And 
Daddy always told me his father was a Caucasian guy from Cave City. So, they knew 
that. So we -- I feel that it was, uhm, probably it was Will's mother that Matt was able to 
recover. The other boys and girls, old folks only told me that the boy was last heard about 
in Memphis, Tennessee. The record book suggests that there was something wrong with 
him, that maybe he would never marry and perhaps he wasn't just a typical boy. Uh, 
Daddy said those girls were pretty girls. Said they were beautiful. That maybe the owner 
had forced himself on those girls, you know, which was not such an unusual thing.  
BB: Hmm. Wow. 
JB: So, sometimes I go to Memphis, Tennessee, I look in the phone book. There's 
Bransfords down there. I can't help but wonder if they’re kin people.  
BB: You ever call those numbers? 
JB: Mhmm. I've called a gentlemen, he seemed very uninterested in talking about it. I've 
called other folks, “I just don’t know, son, I've just don’t know. It's a very low, it’s a low- 
-- it's a very low census last name. There's not a lot of Bransfords in the United States.  
BB: Hmm.  
JB: And we know for sure that Thomas Bransford came from England. John Bransford, 
his daddy, all these things in the record book that Pat Davis has in Texas, and they were 
actually heired to King Henry the VIII of England. From Honeyhill, Honeyhill England.  
BB: So you spoke to her on the phone, so she -- 
JB: Oh -- 
BB: -- called your dad. 
JB: Yeah.  
BB: Is that book been digitized? Have you seen it? Or?  
JB: I've got a copy of it downstairs.  
BB: Yeah.  
JB: Interesting, big ledger. It says Mary Jane Eubanks, Thomas Bransford sister, was his 
secretary, and the skill and the penmanship is just awesome. Perfectly spaced letters. 
Talks about what slaves were worth.  
BB: Woah.  
JB: It's amazing. It’s hard for me to believe that all of this is coincidental.  
BB: Mm.  
[recording paused] [00:43:04] 
JB: He said, "You know, when I was a little boy, we used to come down here and take 
buckets of water?" Three Springs, I was up there last year and there was water come from 
the hillside. And Daddy would say, he would say, "You know, I used to plow this field 
when I was a kid.” Now, my daddy was a real strict Christian Baptist. He'd say, "He 
thought if he drank any kind of liquor he was defouling his soul, but he was -- he would 
say my grandfather was a chef and his brother was a guide." So he would say, "Boy." 
He'd say, "Now boy, I'm going to be gone." They would stay in what was old slave 
quarters, the chefs would. Sometimes they'd be gone two weeks. Now his daddy said, his 
father would say, "Now, Son, when I get back…" He said, "I expect these two acres to be 
[BB coughs] plowed out here. Mules -- there's Jenny, you know Jenny." Then daddy said, 
"We're just eight years old." So he said, sometime -- he said, "Now when my daddy told 
me I had those two acres plowed, you best be working on it." And he said, "Sometimes 
when I was up there the work was so hard that sometimes it would be, I’d fall and  the 
mule would be dragging me through the field and we would find Civil War artifacts." 
Now, I now that historians say there was no major battle. But he says, "When I was a kid 
we would find cannon balls. We would find pots and pans." Or maybe, Union soldiers 
camped up there. He said, "It only made my day harder." ‘Cause he said, because it 
meant "I'd have to stop the mule and stack these things over by the fence and road and 
come back over and start plowing again." Daddy told me that.  
BB: Hmm.  
[00:45:01]  
JB: There was also a cousin named Eddy. There's a ghost story about Eddy Bransford.  
BB: Mmm. 
JB: Eddy Bransford was my dad's first cousin, my second cousin. And Eddy's name can 
be found on the guide roster. And, uh, Eddy was a womanizer. He had married to an 
older woman named, uh, her name was, uh -- she was much older than Eddy. And it 
seemed like there was some jealousy about him being quite a handsome -- one of the 
well-looking Bransfords. And uh, so in the winter time, when the cave tours weren't very 
busy they would come to Elizabethtown, Kentucky, and they would like -- she was the, 
uh, cook in the hotel and he was the doorman. There's a pretty renowned hotel downtown 
Elizabethtown, used to be, pretty major stop. And, uh, so her name was Rhoda Woodson. 
And, uh, Eddy had taken the bus to Louisville, Kentucky, that she suspected he had gone 
to see a woman. Him being married, she's older, cautious about Eddy. So, he came in one 
morning, after being gone all night, she was in the kitchen cooking, she stabbed him with 
a huge knife and killed him. Killed him. She was very good friends with powerful people 
in Elizabethtown. It's on record. It's been found. She never served a day. So they brought 
Eddy's remains back to Mammoth Cave and buried him in the 
Bransfords’ cemetery down Gray Launch Road. So the cabin that Rhoda and Eddy had 
was real nice. Daddy said it was nice, nicer than the one they had. So, his father John 
Henry decided they were going to move into this cabin, unoccupied. And they said 
something unusual and strange things happening in that house. He said the girls will sleep 
downstairs and the boys in the loft. He said night you could hear footsteps come down 
the hallway. Daddy told me this twice. And my aunt told me this just last year. He said, 
sometimes a cold air would come over you. Even in the summer, feel like it's going to 
freeze you to death. He said that cabin was haunted. Daddy said, "I'm not an advocate of 
ghosts, I'm just telling you what I experienced as a kid." He said -- but the thing that 
made them leave that cabin, he said, "My father came home one spring and saw someone 
in the orchard picking fruit that wasn't ripe yet. So, he asked my grandmother, Julianne 
Bransford, "Why you out there picking fruit. You know the apples aren't ready." She 
says, "I've not been out there." My grandfather been a Baptist Christian, didn't believe 
much in ghost stories, but they left that cabin. They moved out of there. Then another 
family says, “Ah, no such thing, we're going to move into that cabin. Who this next 
family was that move in that cabin, unusual, strange thing happen in that cabin and they 
moved out. And then family, the Civil Corps Civilians, when it was in a transition, they 
marked the cabin. Who was there? Some say maybe it was a ghost of Eddy Bransford, 
but what I'm telling you is what my daddy told me twice before he passed away and my 
94-year-old aunt in Glasgow told me this same story, just two years ago. And my cousin 
lived there.  
BB: Wow. Wow. Is that -- was that up by on Onyx Road?  
JB: Yes, yes it was. Not too far from the Bransford Resort.  
BB: Isn't Bransford Cemetery -- is it overgrown or is kept up? 
JB: Not kept too good, but not kept too bad. That's what my grandfather, that's where my 
people buried. A lot of the graves up there are just footstone and headstone 
[indistinguishable] but Henry has a real good grave. Henry just 44 when he died. Said he 
was so pronounced working in caves that he would log all night and work in the cave all 
day. Had a heart attack at age 43 walking to the cave one morning. But they saw that he 
had a real nice headstone. This huge headstone. He's buried next to his wife, Alice. And it 
simply says, "God, Henry Bransford, 1849-1893." Nice headstone.  
BB: He died the same year as the World's Fair. 1893? Is that when he died? 
JB: He was -- yes he did. He died the same year. 18 -- I guess Will would have been in 
Chicago, wouldn't he? 
BB: Mhmm. 
JB: Will would have been his grandson. Mhmm.  
[interruption] [00:50:14] 
JB: Maybe two things. When I was a kid, growing up in Glasgow, coming up to 
Mammoth Cave National Park on Memorial Day Weekend and Fourth of July was just 
standard. So, we'd load up in my dad's '49 Chevy and we'd go to Mammoth Cave. Well, 
we would ride up that dirt road, which was dirt then, up Flint Ridge. And we'd go to our 
great-aunt’s gate and we would sit there in daddy's car, and I was a little kid and I didn't 
understand why we were up there on a hot day in that lane sitting in that car and Daddy 
wouldn't say a word. But my mother would say, "Boys, just sit there and be quiet. Your 
daddy has come home for a minute." See, what my daddy was doing, he was walking 
down memory lane. I didn't understand how, how important it was for him to go up there 
and just look and remember running up and down the lane barefoot. I'd been baptized and 
going to Mammoth Cave Baptist Church and then when we would go back over to the 
hotel after the -- we'd got to picnic area and have a picnic and then we'd go to the motel. 
And some of those people, those Caucasian folks, uh, who worked in the hotel kitchen, 
knew my daddy. But see, they were Mammoth Cave people. And, really, in 1957, the 
takeover hadn't been that long, you know. So, we go to the door to get a ice cream cone 
and I told Joy Lyons, this is in Joy's book, and she said, "Well how you doing, David?" A 
Caucasian lady. Well, he'd say, "Well Miss Milly, we're doing fine. I brought my wife 
and boys to Mammoth Cave for a picnic. We would like some ice cream cones and things 
like that." She'd say, "Why David, how many do you need?" He'd say, "Well, Miss Milly, 
I need four for the girls and I need a Coke for my wife and me." She said, "Well, you 
know you have to go to the back door." And you know. And I remember the pain in my 
daddy's face, but you know he never said a word. So, we'd go to the back door and they 
would bring out refreshments and we'd go back over to the picnic area. And dad said, 
"Oh." And my mom said, "This is a National Park, and we out to be able to go inside if 
we want to." And Daddy said, "Now, listen." He said, "That's just the way things are.” 
Then after we would finish up our picnic, we would go down to the historic entrance, 
used to be a parking lot down where you could park your car and picnic table, all 
different now. So, we'd set there in front of the cave entrance and see these guides come 
up, you know, National Park Uniform. I remember being a little kid, I was about half a 
kid, badge and everything. And, uh, daddy would be telling us our story and they never 
knew who we were.  
[00:53:09]  
JB: Now, maybe one guide come through named Shorty Coates and dad say, "How you 
do, Shorty?" Because Shorty Coates was there when daddy was growing up over there. 
But most of the other guides were new people. People my dad didn't know. So, they 
never acknowledged our presence, but I remember thinking when I was a little kid 
thinking, "My kinfolk had to do with this cave, too." But they never knew who we were. 
And my daddy said, "I just want to make sure that you all know what I'm telling you. 
‘Cause, I wouldn't want it to go away." He says, "Because they told me that, uh, that 
Bransfords who was here were calling to the office and they were told that you need to be 
looking around for another job, because you're not going to be grandfathered." So my 
whole message, is I remember being a little kid, but I was offended. And it seemed like 
what my kin did, didn't really seem to matter. And no body seemed to be interested in 
who we were. But now, there's a rebirth. Now I get to tell you who we are. I get to tell 
you that. In their behalf. And that's what I want to tell you.  
BB: That's great. See, you had that deep connection. I mean, where you are today started 
-- 
JB: Yeah. 
BB: Those seeds were planted way back then. Just being at the cave with your dad and 
your mom.  
JB: Yep. 
BB: Knowing how much it meant to him.  
JB: Well, I, Clifton Bransford, Elsey George, I have a cousin in Chicago, and she's 
Elsey's daughter and she's 88 years old. And she says she remembers when they had their 
last week in Mammoth Cave, being uprooted, realizing that they couldn't stay. And she 
came back to Mammoth Cave, um, about four years ago for a gathering and she hadn't 
been there since, because she remembers being a young teenager, how sad it felt. Uh, 
being uprooted from your house and having to leave and leave a familiar place going to a 
place that wasn't familiar. And also, my father told me that, um, growing up in Mammoth 
Cave, it wasn't such an unusual thing for the people who owned [indistinguishable] Store 
to carry your credit next spring, ‘cause you made some who billed you couldn't pay until 
you sold your tobacco crop or your cattle. And he says, once they moved to Cave City, 
they found out that even though Cave City was real close to Mammoth Cave, the 
connection and the ties weren't the same. So my daddy and his father, and sisters, and 
brothers moved to Cave City. He says, but people there weren't as accommodating to his 
father as those folks in Mammoth Cave. So there was a pretty good correlation between 
blacks and whites even though it was segregation days. Because Dad said by clockwork 
in November, he said, the Ku Klux Klan would burn a cross on the hill not too far from 
Gray Ox Road, he said the flicker of the flame and the, and they would burn the cross in 
the fall time when the leaves off the trees to make sure you saw it. And he said there was 
never a word said. So there was some clear, common things, about segregation and 
racism at Mammoth Cave, but overall, even in the ‘20s and the ‘30s and turn-of-the-
century, people of color and whites did pretty good. Looking out for one another. ‘Cause 
dad said his mother died in 1924 and he was just nine years old. He said the undertaker 
came from Glasgow to get his mother's body and made it and he brought her back the 
next morning. And he said the blacks and the whites from the whole ridge came over to 
their cabin. Got his daddy's crops and took care of his cattle and stuff. Wouldn’t let John 
Henry do anything. They set up all night with the remains. That's the true meaning of a 
wake, you know? And then the next morning, all the black and whites went to the 
cemetery with his father and laid his mother to rest and then things resumed normal 
operation after that. So, the blacks and whites all supported each other. They're pretty 
darn good for the day.  
BB: That's quite a community.  
JB: I just want to tell you that.  
BB: Alright.