Community Health Workers in Downstate New York 
Interviewee, Carl Tyler 
Interviewer, Aaron Paige  
Conducted on May 18, 2022 
Interview conducted at Sun River Health The Hub, Bronx, NY 
Aaron Paige (00:00): 
Today is Wednesday, May 18th, 2022. My name is Aaron Paige. The spelling is A A R O N, Paige P A I G E. 
And today I'll be interviewing Carl Tyler as part of the Archie Green Fellowship Project, titled 
'Community Health Workers in Downstate New York.' Carl, would you please state and spell your full 
name? 
Carl Tyler (00:22): 
My name is Carl Tyler. It is spelled C A R L for Carl. T Y L E R. Tyler. 
Aaron Paige (00:28): 
And Carl, what city or borough do you currently live in? 
Carl Tyler (00:31): 
Right now I'm in Brooklyn. 
Aaron Paige (00:32): 
And prior to that? 
Carl Tyler (00:34): 
I was in Queens. 
Aaron Paige (00:35): 
What year were you born and where were you born? 
Carl Tyler (00:39): 
I was born in 1956. I was born in Brooklyn. Kings County Hospital, as a matter of fact. 
Aaron Paige (00:45): 
Did you also grow up in Brooklyn? 
Carl Tyler (00:47): 
Yes. 
Aaron Paige (00:48): 
When did you move from Brooklyn to Queens? 
Carl Tyler (00:54): 
It was always a back and forth. Brooklyn and Queens have always associated itself with each other, so it 
would be a back and forth thing. 
Aaron Paige (01:03): 
And just curious, what year did you become a peer outreach worker at Sun River Health? 
Carl Tyler (01:10): 
I think the process started in 2009, I think. 2010 I was going through the training and everything. 
Probably maybe a year or two afterwards, I really started doing house visits. When you go into 
somebody's home, there's a training that we would do to know if they were using, or if anybody in the 
house was using. There's things that people don't pay attention to, like ashtrays. I'd pay attention to 
that stuff. It's just automatic. I've just been doing it. I pay attention to your floors. I go by smell. I look at 
the color of your walls and know. If there's a cigarette smoker in here…there are different things that I 
look for when I go to do a home visit. And usually I try to stay out of the apartment. But a lot of times, 
they'll invite you in because they met you and they see that you are an okay person, so, "I can let you 
in." And I'll see some things, that according to our conversation, I wouldn't have even thought. 
Carl Tyler (02:16): 
Because I've seen some clients who come in here, not well dressed, don't smell good. Go to their 
apartment, and it's immaculate. And I've seen some people who come in here very well dressed, smell 
good, look good. Go to their apartments, horrible. So from that, I know that everybody's an individual. 
And at that point, I just started saying, you know what, let me just use what I know from my lifestyle, 
and what they've trained me to look for and do, and just keep it individually. Because everything I do, I 
have to write it down. I have to put it in. And the funny thing is, a lot of clients that mentioned to me 
that they were, but now they can tell me, "Yeah, I do use a little cocaine." I'll see cellophane wrappers. If 
they're folded up and they are certain size, there is no way... I see cellophane bags that are transparent. 
There are certain things I know what to look for that you may think I wouldn't even understand, but 
that's my job. That's what I do. 
Aaron Paige (03:15): 
To see those signs and to... 
Carl Tyler (03:17): 
Yes. To find out what's really going on. That's the whole point of the home visit. 
Aaron Paige (03:20): 
Find out why you haven't been making your appointments. Find out are you taking Suboxone? Are you 
on a methadone program? Are you using heroin? If you are doing any of those things, my suggestion is 
always to get you into an outpatient program, if I can. If you are working, I try to find you a schedule 
around that. And mainly, I'm an adherent specialist. That's basically what I do. I want you to take your 
medication. So everybody has these time schedules where they are unable to take their medication 
because they're always doing overtime, whatever. Sometimes I tell them, "You tape it to your leg." I 
said, "There's no excuse, you tape it to your leg every day. And if you come home, you're working all day 
and you're feeling kind of sluggish, or it makes you feel some type of way when you're working, you 
don't take it in the daytime you take it at night when you go to sleep." And usually that's what I 
recommend for people who are actually in the streets, working, stuff like that. When you get in, take 
your medication, let it work yourself at night while you're sleeping. When you get up tomorrow, you'll 
feel a hell of a lot better. 
Aaron Paige (04:17): 
And just to be clear medication for what, in this case? 
Carl Tyler (04:19): 
Oh, Hepatitis C, HIV, anything that you're supposed to be taking on a regular basis. Like with us, the 
Hepatitis C medicine, you have 12 weeks. I think it's two months. In some cases, it can be 12 weeks, 
depending on how far gone you are, or how bad your liver is. That medicine has to be taken every day. 
My job is to call you every week to make sure that everything is running smooth. 
Aaron Paige (04:42): 
How do you identify the individuals that you're going to see when you're making the home visits? Are 
you given a list or... 
Carl Tyler (04:50): 
Yeah, we get a list of the people who have disappeared. Or we'll look on our roster and be like, "Okay, 
great. This person missed five appointments. Whoa, what's going on?" Because when you have a 
caseload of 80 people, in order to keep track, you do it by pieces, by portion. I take this 20 today. 
Tomorrow, I take this 20. I take this 20. By the time you get there, you start to find out that it's a whole 
different situation. And each person has its own story. Some of it you can believe. Some of it is definitely 
not true at all. And that's what you got to find out. Because usually, whatever's going on with them, 
there is a reason why the medication hasn't been taken properly. There is a reason why they're not 
coming into the appointments. It could be another girl. These things all add up to help us determine 
what's going on with the client and how we can get them...The funny thing about Hepatitis C, the blood 
work tells us everything. It'll tell us if you've been taking the medication. It'll tell us if you haven't been 
taking the medication. It'll tell us if you've been partially taking the medication. So when clients come in, 
they don't know that we know all this stuff from the blood work. They begin to start with stories. "Ah ah 
ah ah ah." I said, "What did we say when I first met you?" I said, "I promised you, I would give you my 
word. I would not give you any stories, and anything that you needed to deal with, I would deal with 
you. I would go with you and deal with it. No lying." I don't care if you use. I don't care. I don't care if you 
put a skirt on at night. That's up to you. What I need you to do is take your medication everyday. That's 
my main focus. 
Carl Tyler (06:31): 
Don't so much dwell on what they do, because you can't do nothing about that. They've been doing it 
long before they met you. You're not going to take a person who's been shooting dope for 40 years, and 
he's going to be clean in a week. Just not going to happen. That's just not the way it happens. 
Aaron Paige (06:45): 
But I'm sure as you know, sometimes just telling somebody to do something isn't enough, and you... 
Carl Tyler (06:51): 
No, you have to... 
Aaron Paige (06:52): 
Connect with them in another way. 
Carl Tyler (06:53): 
Yes, and then you do the footwork. A lot of my clients, when I show up at their house, because I don't 
tell them I do house calls. I don't tell them. When I pop up, they be like, "Mr. Tyler, what are you doing?" 
I said, "Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot to tell you. I do house calls. You've missed several appointments. What's 
going on?" I think maybe the way I talk to them and communicate with them, I don't talk to them like I 
don't know them. I talk to them like I've known them all my life. Like, "What's going on with you?" I just 
learned so much doing this. I get excited sometimes, because I never really paid attention to human 
behavior. I never really thought about it that way. You know what I mean? I mean, I meet you. You're a 
nice guy. Fine. You're a nice guy. I meet you, you're an asshole? Oh, you're an asshole? I don't mess with 
you. 
Carl Tyler (07:40): 
But when you get in debt with those who are assholes, you start to see like, "Goddamn, like he's still 
standing? After all of that?" I got a friend that just got his money from the Boy Scouts. He was molested 
by a guy for, shit, 10, 12 years. And I asked him, "Why didn't you tell anybody? It's not like your parents 
didn't love you. It's not like..." You know what he told me, he said, "I was so ashamed." He says, he really 
doesn't know how he got into that position. Anyway, it wasn't him. You have predators. This is what 
they do. They're very good at what they do. They've been doing it a long time. And just because you fall 
victim to something, that doesn't make you a bad person, it doesn't make you an asshole, it doesn't 
mean that you're not smart. It's just that you wouldn't even see it coming. And what are you going to do 
about something you can't see coming? What can you tell me about that? You can't do shit. 
Aaron Paige (08:36): 
I think right now I'm getting a sense of actually how you communicate... 
Carl Tyler (08:39): 
Yes! 
Aaron Paige (08:39): 
With the people that you talk to. 
Carl Tyler (08:41): 
Yes, because at the end of the day, there's so much stuff going on. People are not going tell you. It's only 
when I get personal and they hear the way I talk to them, and the way I am and my response. It's like the 
truth starts to come out down the road. All of it don't out on the first intake. It'll come out within those 
30 days or that 12 months that we are doing the time that you're supposed to take your medication, all 
this stuff will come out. 
Aaron Paige (09:03): 
It's a relationship. 
Carl Tyler (09:04): 
Yes. 
Aaron Paige (09:04): 
That you're cultivating. 
Carl Tyler (09:05): 
Yes. And you have to build it with every client. There's no exceptions. But at the beginning, that 
relationship, that first relationship, your first contact, is what's going to take you and the client to the 
next level. And then you know a little bit about the client. For example, I know some clients that I have 
to go look for. I go around to the methadone clinic, And there they are. You know, it's just a matter of 
knowing where they will go or knowing where everything is going on at. And if you go there, nine out of 
ten times, I'm going to say eight out of ten times, you you're going to find them. And that's basically 
what I do. I go out and I search for people who have been absent from care, and it seems like nobody 
else can find them. So they send me. Just my team though. I don't really do anything for them. And I've 
been very fortunate. And I take that information and I bring it back. I'm kind of like the person who ties 
up the loose ends. I go and find out the why's. What's going on. 
Carl Tyler (10:06): 
And there's been some cases where some clients have been dead a month or two qnd we didn't even 
know. Nobody told us. Nobody called us. And it could have been prevented. Like I said, people relate to 
people when they relate to what's going on with them. And you don't have to really experience it. You 
just have to verbally let them feel it. And that information that they give you, when they know that they 
can talk to you or they feel that they can trust you, eighty percent of it is probably the truth. I have 
grown men who have been molested, been going on for years. I have women who have gone through 
the same process. I have women who've been beaten since they've been married. And I have to ask the 
same question. "Why would you stay?" You see, people beating me? I'm African American. That doesn't 
work for me. I don't see why you would stay there. I mean, this is just my thinking. I can't imagine what 
somebody else is thinking. "If I leave, how my kids are going to eat? If I leave, where am I going to stay? I 
can't go to my family." There's other stuff that's involved, which causes this reaction. 
Aaron Paige (11:15): 
Do you see it as part of your job to see those other things that are going on? 
Carl Tyler (11:21): 
Well, I make it my business. It's part of my job too, but as a human being, and I'm still an African 
American man, I still go through shit too. People seem to think that things have changed from the sixties 
and the seventies. Well, they're just hiding it better now. I think the incident in Buffalo kind of showed 
that. And people who don't look like us, they don't understand that there's so many unwritten rules that 
we have to read. If you want stay alive, you need to know those rules. They're not publicized. It's just, 
it's just neighborhood information. That's just how it works. 
Carl Tyler (12:04): 
It's the telephone. Talking to other people can be... It's just like the telephone. It's no different. At the 
end of the day, when they see that you are about something, that you really try to help people, which is 
pretty much my situation. Mostly all the bad guys, twisted guys, they come to me and they come for 
information. They have stuff going on they don't want another person to know about. So I do a lot of 
one-on-ones. I do them in churches, too. My family has a church in PA, so I counsel people all the time. 
And this word, "peer"... Brightpoint, they started this peer program. The idea of it was to take people 
who really lived it, educate them, and let them grow from being a peer to an employee, which was my 
situation. Everybody said I couldn't do it. My parents always told me, if you want something bad 
enough, you just have to find that way. 
Carl Tyler (12:58): 
And if you don't know it, you go and ask somebody who does. Because somebody knows. If you just ask. 
The thing is having that motivation and the footwork to be able to do it. So I've been practicing this for 
so many years now, it's natural to me. But my main concern is the healthcare business has to 
understand this is a two-sided coin. And even though, as a physician, you don't have the time to really 
get into the person, this is why you have people like myself. You have case managers in place, who have 
really experienced some stuff in life. And we go, we get these clients, and we explain the rules. I deal 
with the truth and I deal with facts, period. I read your paperwork, I go through your medical, and then 
I'll do your intake and I'll question you. According to whatever you tell me during that intake will 
determine how well it's going to go, or if I know I've got to do some extra work with you. 
Carl Tyler (13:49): 
Medicine must be taken every day. If you're having a problem with that, call me. If you're taking the 
medication and it's giving you runs or something, you call me. I contact your doctor. Your doctor will 
figure out something for you, so this doesn't continue to happen. 
Aaron Paige (14:03): 
But you're that bridge. 
Carl Tyler (14:04): 
Yes. That bridge for me is a very powerful bridge. Usually, people just come in and ask for me, my 
coworker, he's very good at what he does paper-wise. And he's a good conversationalist and a smart 
guy, but he doesn't have that emotion. He doesn't have that "I've been there" type of thing. And these 
guys can read it. They will read you. Because the same way I'm doing his intake, he's doing the same 
thing to me. Because he wants to find out how much can he tell me? You know? 
Aaron Paige (14:36): 
I'm wondering how you became a peer outreach worker, and why... 
Carl Tyler (14:41): 
Let me tell you my story. A little bit of it. When I grew up in the sixties, for some reason, drugs and guns 
were always in my neighborhood. I couldn't figure it out. I didn't know why, how I had so much access to 
this stuff. And drugs was a way of life. That's how we made money. Back then, minimum wage was 
$2.35. What am I going to do with that? And I noticed in the Black community, anything that was wrong 
or illegal, it always winds up dead. And I just couldn't figure out...You know, my parents were religious 
people, and she told me if she saw me nodding, she'd kill me. And I believed her. So I never messed with 
heroine. But I sold it. It was just so complicated back then. Black people were being murdered everyday. 
I've seen cops murder Black people everyday. I've seen police bring drugs into the neighborhood every 
other day. Collect their money every week. The vanilla envelope. I don't know if you've ever heard of 
this story, about this cop named Serpico. Well, let me tell you, he's telling you the truth. Pretty much 
everything he said, that's how it went. Everybody was on the take back then. There was politicians. If 
you read the history from the sixties to the seventies, you will see so many politicians who got thrown 
under the bus. I mean, it's been going on. It was well oiled. They let it in. 
Carl Tyler (16:15): 
But you have a fight on drugs, huh? I never understood that. How could you be against drugs? And 
they're always here. I don't know what type of intelligence you got, because when I wake up, it's always 
here. I could get a key of cocaine. I could get 30 keys of cocaine. I'm 13 years old. So you can imagine the 
impact it had on me. So after I saw my first two or three murders done by police officers, I had to 
assume at that point, maybe I didn't have a future. And I didn't know when it was going to end. But I 
knew one thing, I know I wasn't going to die from no drugs, and I know it I wasn't going to die by the 
hands of a cop. Because what I've seen them do, nobody could tell me anything. I've seen it for 20, 25, 
30 years. I've watched this. When you are blind and you can't see, you just can't see. It's kind of like 
when you go to eye doctor and he puts that stuff in your eyes to get your pupils dilated... or whatever it 
is it does. When that process is over, they'll tell you you'll have to have somebody come get you or stay 
stable here until it clears up. Same process. 
Carl Tyler (17:27): 
If in your neighborhood you're told to go to school and get a good job and work for somebody else, 
that's what you're going to do. Because back then, like I said, you listen to your parents, the people who 
were doing what they were doing, because to you, it seems like they got themselves together. Well, we 
don't know how they got themselves together. At that time, we didn't know. So things had to change for 
me. And I know that I had to stop using. I lost so much time on bullshit. Everything we were told, it was 
bullshit. Everything we saw, it was fabricated. I don't know why I didn't connect those dots. I don't know 
why we stayed out so long with it? Because after a while, it becomes depressing. And when you get 
depressed, you don't want to feel depressed. So what do you do? You go right back to the same thing. 
And at the end of the day, like I said, when I got to Brightpoint, I heard about them. They said, "Carl, you 
can change some things." 
Aaron Paige (18:33): 
So you came in as a client? 
Carl Tyler (18:34): 
I came in as a client. I came in as a client. And when I got there, these people were helping everybody. 
They actually listened to what I had to say, because nobody else wanted to listen to what I had to say. 
But they listened, and they actually helped me go from one point to the next point. So I said, "I know I'm 
in the right place, because I've never seen this before. I'm going to stay here." And the lady said, "If you 
give time time, your life will change." That's what she told me. I felt and believed her. And I did that. 
Aaron Paige (19:10): 
And now look where you are. 
Carl Tyler (19:13): 
And honestly... 
Aaron Paige (19:13): 
That's amazing. 
Carl Tyler (19:14): 
From the time that I've been here and all the things that I've done, there's no growth for peers. They 
didn't have a plan on how this thing was going to work out. Because just because we were using, it 
doesn't mean that we didn't understand about what was going on with life, or what was going on with 
our people. So from that point on, they had this, what do you call it? It's like a stipend program. 
Aaron Paige (19:44): 
This is starting around 2007? 
Carl Tyler (19:47): 
2009. 2009. 2010. 
Aaron Paige (19:50): 
And up until that point, you had been using on and off? 
Carl Tyler (19:54): 
No, I had been clean. I was locked up, as a matter of fact. Don't think cause you're locked up, there's no 
drugs. It's just as much shit there as it is out in the streets. Nobody never understood. I tried to tell...You 
know what? At the end of the day, people watch too much TV. Because a lot of things you do see on TV, 
it's just falsified. But a lot of things you do see on TV, it's really a lot of it. I never understood how the jail 
system had that much drugs. You could cop like you were in the streets. As long as you could call and 
have money sent in, it was not a problem. From my life, from being young until that point, that's all I 
ever saw. People were using. We had doctors. It's just more cocaine than anybody. You know, when you 
said doctor, we said, "Oh shit." The first thing we thought about, "Oh man, we're gonna make thousands 
now." Because they would tell you, "You know, go over to so and so's house, just drop this off, give this 
to the guy. He's going to be standing the stoop, and give it to him." Boom. You going about your 
business. It was that simple. But back then, that was a job. It was so regular, like coming here. Same 
thing. 
Carl Tyler (20:56): 
I get up in the morning, brush my teeth, go eat, pah pah...Go to the block, hustle. Same process. At five 
o'clock, it was over. I would get paid, and then I'd go home. Because there's no way Black people could 
survive with $2.35. It's kind of hard to explain, because when you are actually experiencing it and you 
are watching it and you're seeing it, it's different. And then I have someone Caucasian come into the 
neighborhood, and he's walking around like every fucking thing is okay. We know that that's the man. 
We know that. I mean, when you are in certain blocks, we've never seen Caucasian people come there. 
Carl Tyler (21:39): 
The only time I saw them was when they came to get money, or when they came to drop off. At that 
time, the numbers were basically by the Italians, but Black people took it over and took it off on their 
own and they made a lot of money just by doing the numbers themselves. Some people were lucky. 
Some people weren't, but for the most part it was. I'm going to take you up now to 2010. Brightpoint 
was so concerned about what the hell my life was about. And I just never... Nobody never asked me. 
And then the same thing I'm telling you that I do to my clients, this is what they did to me. 
Aaron Paige (22:18): 
So they modeled that for you? 
Carl Tyler (22:21): 
Yes. Yes. And I took it and I ran with it. Because I knew there were other people who were like me. 
Aaron Paige (22:27): 
Can I ask about...So were you at one point diagnosed with Hep-C ? 
Carl Tyler (22:34): 
I had Hep C. I think it was 2008? I had very low numbers. 
Aaron Paige (22:39): 
Because I know part of what underlies the peer outreach program is... 
Carl Tyler (22:44): 
Yeah, you have to share their lived experience. I had Hep-C. 1 million copies. Very low, wasn't nothing. 
Before I could even finish the first 30 days of the medication, I was good. But I still continued to take it 
anyway. And from that experience, it didn't really bother me. I didn't really have symptoms. Like going 
to the bathroom, or not being able to eat, or not having any energy, or having too much energy. It just 
didn't affect me that way. 
Carl Tyler (23:13): 
But I just looked at it as the same process. People who found out that they were Hepatitis C positive 
kind of reacted like they were HIV positive. It's not that much of a difference, but it's just an upset. So 
now what do I do? And how do I get rid of it? Well, the Hep-C, I don't think you ever get rid of it. Your 
numbers go down, but it continues to stay in your body. Because if it comes up positive, that just means 
you've had a run in with it at some point. HIV is something that you have got to live with. And those 
were the hardest cases, because everybody had this crazy picture of when gay people were dying back 
then from HIV, and a lot of us didn't know what it was. 
Carl Tyler (23:57): 
We didn't have a clue. We didn't know why they were shriveling up like that. We didn't know why they 
had all these abscesses, and we were afraid to ask them. But as time went on, we started to understand. 
When you love somebody, whether it's the same sex or whatever, all of this stuff comes with it. We had 
this class one time about the Jewish people and God. And the Jewish people, they have a system of their 
own for their children, starting with savings. They may have three or four jars. One would be for church. 
One would be for your allowance. One would be for you to save. Because they teach you how to save. 
And this process that I've been learning about with other nationalities, wasn't the process with African 
Americans. I mean, we were always on the lowest totem pole. We always had a target on our back. We 
couldn't figure out why everybody wanted to kill... I'm 13, I'm 14 years old. Why does everybody want to 
kill us? I don't understand. 
Carl Tyler (25:13): 
So as time goes on, some people explain something, some don't, and you just watch and you learn. Let 
me give you something brief. I worked at Madison Square Garden for five years. For the Knicks and the 
Rangers, delivering mail. I was in the mail service. And I had been there for three years, and I knew the 
place backwards and front. I know that Madison Square Garden, underground, goes down, maybe, shit, 
four stories, five stories. 
Aaron Paige (25:44): 
Wow. I did not know that. 
Carl Tyler (25:45): 
Underneath Madison Square Garden, you can drive in it. That's how deep and big it is. And that's where 
the Knicks keep all their foods and stuff like that. Their locker rooms. They would change, stuff like that. 
We would take mail all over. And they had this guy come in. Caucasian. Young guy. About my age at that 
time. About 22, 21? He didn't know shit. The boss asked me, came over and said, "Yo man, Carl. I need 
you to train him. So he'll know how to do the fucking job." And I did that. I trained him well. I didn't have 
a problem with that. Three weeks later, he took over my job. 
Aaron Paige (26:24): 
Ohhhh. 
Carl Tyler (26:24): 
And I was sent someplace else. He got the promotion and I asked him and I said, "How was it I've been 
here four years. This guy came in. I trained him for you. You hire him for the position. You gave him the 
raise, but you sent me to another department. Why is that?" You know what he said to me? He said 
"The system, it's just the way it is." 
Aaron Paige (26:47): 
Oof. 
Carl Tyler (26:47): 
"I have nothing to do with it." 
Aaron Paige (26:51): 
Wow. 
Carl Tyler (26:51): 
He went outside of professionalism to, I'm sorry. The way he was explaining it to me. And that feeling... 
Aaron Paige (26:58): 
He was endorsing the system in that action but... 
Speaker 2 (27:01): 
Yes. But it was not his fault. That's what he told me. But then I noticed there were other Caucasian 
people who came in behind. The same shit was happening again. So from that point, from me growing 
up, I've always been worried about how I walk, how I step, where I go. And definitely be aware of your 
surroundings. I didn't want to ever feel that type of pain before. I never told anybody about that pain, 
because I didn't even know how to express how I felt about it, but I knew it was wrong. And at the end 
of the day, when you grow up like that, and I'm a grown man right now, things have not changed. They 
just hide better. The ones who jump up, "I'm not like that" are usually the ones that are like that. 
Sometimes it's good to just be quiet. 
Carl Tyler (27:52): 
You know, you don't have to respond to everything. Everything doesn't deserve a response. 
Aaron Paige (27:59): 
I'm just curious... Was there kind of like an "aha" moment when you were like, "I know I want to do this 
work of peer outreach." Did someone invite you to do that work and suggest it? 
Carl Tyler (28:12): 
No. 
Aaron Paige (28:12): 
How did you decide? 
Carl Tyler (28:14): 
I decided on it because I figured there were other people like me. I had a story to tell and I wanted to tell 
it, but I never got an opportunity to tell it until maybe like three, four years ago. I had a chance to tell my 
story in a group. I hadn't been to a group in a long time, but that's how I survived, and that's how I 
stayed clean. I stayed clean with people who were just like me, who come from where I come from, but 
wanted something different. That Was the key. Everybody else that I was with, they wanted something 
different. And nobody had to direct me. I didn't even know home visits were included in that, honestly, 
in the business. It was only... It just happened as I went along. And it didn't start happening until I got to 
Boom. When I first got this job with them about seven, eight years ago... Let me show you something. 
This will tell you. 
Aaron Paige (29:06): 
Sure. 
Carl Tyler (29:18): 
That's one of them. 
Aaron Paige (29:20): 
Mr. Carl... Do you want to read it? And this is a note that she wrote? 
Carl Tyler (29:27): 
This comes from one of our clients. Well, we have a lot of clients who do a lot of stuff for us. "Carl Tyler 
is a very concerned and caring person who made me..." She was Caucasian, too. "I believe in myself and 
that all the things are possible as long as you stick to what you care about the most." She wrote this, 
okay? "When I missed appointments in the beginning of my treatment for Hep-C, he went that extra 
mile and came to my house." She didn't know I did home visits. I never tell anybody. "And reminded me 
how important it is to take your medication. And this is what we need to do. And he worked out a plan 
for me to keep his appointments. My treatment for Hep-C is over. I'm non-detectable. And I do also 
have Carl and Alex to thank. As a team, they work so well together to make patients like myself feel 
important." And she said, "Thank you, Carl." Signed... 
Aaron Paige (30:28): 
What a testament to the work that you do. 
Speaker 2 (30:30): 
So I have a couple more. Alex has way more than me. When you get this, it just tells you that you've 
changed. I believe I became a better person. I believe I have a little bit more insight, and I have patience. 
This woman was the hardest, oh my God. She was still using. She was still going through stuff. She had a 
baby. She had a child that she was taking care of, which was African American. And that kind of 
triggered my interest. Like, how did this happen? And then, as she started to explain to me the kind of 
person she was, and I started to see, she was just somebody who just got on drugs. But she was a loving, 
caring person. She didn't care about color. It didn't matter. She was always respectful. And that's what I 
learned from her. 
Carl Tyler (31:20): 
So these letters that we get, it tells us what we are doing. We've won the state award in New York state 
for curing the most people for Hepatitis-C, I think about 1, 2, 3, 4, about 4 or 5 times. 
Aaron Paige (31:32): 
Wow. 
Carl Tyler (31:33): 
We've won every award there is to win. Him too. We've been recognized by the AIDS Institute. It's the 
type of work I never thought anybody would see me, to say "You know what? You did a good job." And 
most Black people would tell you "That's unheard of. We've never heard of that shit." White people are 
not going to tell you that. And well, guess what? Then, it's not true. And this keeps me going. And I know 
I did the right thing. For once in my life, now, I think about somebody else other than me. Because there 
was a time when I had no choice but to think about it, just for myself. But when you start doing this 
work and you start touching lives, and you start seeing things, it just changes your whole perspective. 
Aaron Paige (32:21): 
It's so revealing, I think. And maybe it's important too, that you're acknowledging in that letter that... 
Because you could also say, "Look, I helped this woman to make changes for herself, to better her own 
life." But at the same time, you're saying in reading that letter, you see the change inside of yourself. 
Carl Tyler (32:47): 
Yes! 
Aaron Paige (32:47): 
And it makes you kind of recognize that... 
Carl Tyler (32:48): 
Changed her too. Who knew? 
Aaron Paige (32:51): 
I'm curious about the community of people that you serve. Who you're primarily serving as a peer 
outreach worker, in terms of the ages of the individuals that you most often see. 
Carl Tyler (33:05): 
Don't matter. We see everybody. 
Aaron Paige (33:06): 
Race, ethnicity, background, you see Spanish speaking communities? 
Carl Tyler (33:12): 
In this business, there is no color. Yeah, you speak Spanish, you speak Spanish. That's it. If you speak 
Yiddish, you speak Yiddish. We're going to find somebody for you. The main focus is to get you cured 
and help you to become a better person. And if you are a good person, we're going to help you enhance 
that and lead you in a direction where you could grow even bigger than that. That's the whole goal of 
this. As I said, once you do the work and people start telling other people about the good work that you 
do, and that you were understanding, and that you did that extra mile. That extra mile wasn't really an 
extra mile for me. It's just something that I do in order to help or fix the situation. You just got to follow 
steps and pursue it. But other people see it differently. 
Aaron Paige (33:59): 
Could you take me into maybe a relationship that you formed with a client. A specific person, not using 
their name, but just someone that you met for the first time, you did the initial intake, and then you 
learned their story along the way, and you coached them through and saw them through to the end, or 
you still have a relationship with them, possibly. 
Carl Tyler (34:21): 
Well, I have several of those, and she's a prime example. She was perfect. She was hardcore. She was 
hood. She was using. She always said, "I just don't have time". The reason she didn't have time is 
because she needed to get her fix, so that she would be able to function for the rest of the day. See the 
funny thing about people who use heroin... It's a different type of drug and it's a physical thing. And if 
you don't have your dosage or your shot in the morning, the runs will start. You'll start getting sick. You 
can't eat any food. And that process needs to be done. Now, to me, abstinence is the best. If you ask 
me. 
Carl Tyler (35:01): 
But once...Inwood, not Inwood. What is this place? Boom Health is where we were stationed at. It was a 
needle exchange. It was the first time in my life I ever seen, legally, that you could get needles, get 
alcohol, cookers, crack pipes, brand new pushers. And I asked "Why would you give that stuff out?" The 
whole point is to get people sober. You know what the lady said to me? She said, "Carl", she said, "I 
know what you mean." She said, "I know exactly what you're saying." But she said, "There are just some 
people that are never going to stop using, because it's been implemented into their life to a point that 
that is their life. That's their day. Get up. Get my shot. I go to work." I never knew there were people 
walking around like that. She had to really explain it to me. So after knowing that and then start seeing 
it, it was hard for me to process. But at the end of the day, you can't convince nobody to do nothing 
they don't want to do. 
Carl Tyler (36:09): 
If this person decides to say, "Okay, great. I'm going to sleep here in this tent, on this block." What are 
you going to do? He's afraid to stay in the shelter. Shelters are dangerous. I wouldn't tell anybody to go 
into a shelter. I would advise anybody, if you have a relative that you don't get along with, that you beg 
them and ask them if you can come live with them. Because once you go into a shelter, your perspective 
on life will change completely. And then you have these individuals who run these shelters, and I'm not 
talking about the people who actually own it. There are clients in there who are a lot stronger. There's a 
lot of weak, and there's a lot of strong. You get four or five strong guys. You go around and you take 
money. You tell them "in order for you to come in, you need to give me $10 a week" or whatever. And 
believe it or not, it was actually happening. 
Aaron Paige (36:52): 
How do you follow clients who wind up homeless or are going through the shelter system? So I know 
you're making home visits, and hat's one way of connecting with people. What happens? 
Carl Tyler (37:04): 
It's no different. It's not really that much of a difference. You go to the shelter that they're assigned to. 
And when you get there, nine out of ten times, they're not there. So when you do get them in your 
office, you have to set up a way that you guys have a communication, where he's going to come get his 
medication. In other words, we do DOC, too. DOT. Some clients are afraid to carry the medication, from 
being stolen or lost or whatever. So they come everyday, or every two days to pick up medication or 
every week, we give them a week supply. They'll come and they'll pick up their medication. They don't 
want everybody knowing their business. You asked me something about age? There is no age number 
with us. We deal with children. Listen, me, I deal with adolescents, adults, middle age, pregnant, non-
pregnant, African, all the way from New Zealand. 
Carl Tyler (37:51): 
I don't care where you come from. People are people. And if they're sick, they're sick. And the process 
shouldn't be any different than what I tell this one, to tell that one. 
Aaron Paige (38:00): 
Do you conduct outreach in other kind of settings? Other places that you go to where you... 
Carl Tyler (38:09): 
We do outreach in public, like the parks... . 
Aaron Paige (38:12): 
So that's what I was kind of wondering. Can you talk a little bit about that kind of outreach? 
Carl Tyler (38:16): 
Okay. So what happens is, ____ usually comes with these outings where we go to different 
communities. Set up shop. Give out Hepatitis C information. PrEP. We give that information. We have a 
PrEP team over here. They go with us also. And then we have maybe another entity in whatever they're 
representing. They'll bring their material. And we all get tables, and we set up and we talk to the 
community. We actually stop people and talk to them. If they're using. A lot of people that we do talk to, 
their son or their father or their husband is using. They want to figure out a way how to get him into a 
program, or can I talk to them? Could you bring him in? And I tell them all the time, "Yes, you can. If my 
supervisor says it's okay for me to make a house visit, I will come to your house." Because I do 
understand what the people are saying, who want these people to get off drugs. Because it's 
complicated. 
Aaron Paige (39:09): 
And that's a little different than you getting the name from a higher up saying, "This person is seeking 
services." And you then you go into their house. This is you more or less identifying the person. 
Carl Tyler (39:23): 
Yes. Well, my supervisor is... She's special. That's all I could tell you. I never really met anybody like her. 
She's so well versed on both ends. When she hears something, she'll say, "Okay, Carl. Make an 
appointment for me and have him come in. And I want you to talk to him. I want you to do his intake." 
Sometimes I get a lot of parole and probation, because I'm very good with them. Parole and probation, 
they have this attitude, chip on their shoulder. They're mad. You got locked up. You got caught. Now you 
got to go through this. They're making you do it. If they find out that you're Hepatitis C positive or HIV 
positive, it will be implemented into the rules that you take your medication everyday, or they'll lock you 
back up for that. You have to take your medication. 
Carl Tyler (40:06): 
So there have been times when I've had to talk to parole and probation officers, which is really very 
easy. The whole goal is to get the person off drugs, and to get him in a better place and take his 
medication. And at the same time, you also have to build a house with them in order for them to live in. 
That's just how it works. So now that you stop using, now what? This is the thing with everybody who 
uses or messes around. When they're not doing what they usually do, and they stop for minute and be 
like, "Look, what the hell am I gonna do now?" This is where I come in at. 
Aaron Paige (40:45): 
Because it's about them taking their medication. That's important. But there are a lot of other issues I'm 
sure that you see as well. 
Carl Tyler (40:53): 
Yeah. They have to move forward. 
Aaron Paige (40:54): 
What are some of the other kinds of services that you are connecting individuals to that they're in need 
of. Because a lot of people have to navigate... it's not just the healthcare system, it's a lot of stuff. 
Carl Tyler (41:05): 
That's very true. 
Aaron Paige (41:05): 
It's housing. It's food. 
Carl Tyler (41:10): 
We just don't have the resources here. They wouldn't listen to me when I explained to them about 
communal life. Now communal life, it was SRO (single resident occupancy). People from parole, 
probation, whatever came there. I was a case manager there. They had their own housing system. They 
had their own buildings. So the minute they come in and they got on their programs, let's say HASA 
(HIV/AIDS Services Administration) or FHEPS (Family Homelessness and Eviction Supplement)... Or 
whatever. They would accept those programs. And honestly, it's been working for them. And I don't 
know why Sun River and Brightpoint didn't take advantage of that. Because people are always coming 
and going, it's a revolving door. And if you can house them as much as you helped everybody? If you can 
help them with housing, which is the main thing? Let me tell you something. You get a person some 
place to live and you'd be surprised how they will change. There are some that will never change, but 
they will maintain. Housing is the biggest problem. 
Aaron Paige (42:13): 
Do you take on some of that responsibility in your job in terms of... 
Carl Tyler (42:17): 
In communal life, I used to. They won't let me do it here. Because they don't deal with anything in 
housing. 
Carl Tyler (42:22): 
Me? I would just go to the real estate places with them and help them get an apartment, and they won't 
even let me do that either. Unless he's a client that's on our caseload and that is a part of what he needs 
to do. So if he's mentally not strong enough or stable enough, and my supervisor sees it, she'll send me 
to go with him, and then I'll take care of everything else. I'll ask the right questions. I'll tell them what he 
needs. And then I'll know exactly what type of guidelines they need to do in order for him to be okay. 
Aaron Paige (42:52): 
So then you're acting as an advocate for this person, too. 
Carl Tyler (42:57): 
Yes. Yes. And then I know a few things. But they don't know that. Look, housing is one of the most 
complicated things I can tell you about. There are a lot of people of color who have programs, and this is 
how they're paying their rent. And in some cases it's good. And in some cases, you just can't give an 
apartment to certain people. And this is why they tell you to do the screening. You have to screen them 
for a certain____. Let's just say you get a brand new building. Let's just say, downtown Manhattan. You 
want to send a client there who's about taking care of their apartment, who's actually working or going 
to school, or who's maintaining very well, and those are the people you send for the good places. Now, 
they have a lot of other places that's in the hood where you would send somebody who sells drugs all 
the time. Even though he got cured, he took his medication, did what he had to do. He's just set up for 
this, because he's not doing anything. For those that are growing, you want to make sure that they have 
the best with their comfortability, so that they can grow. 
Carl Tyler (43:58): 
But it's sad to say, this is just the way it's set up. And it's not me. I just try to do the best that I can. There 
are certain things I see that's wrong. I can't fix it. I can't do anything. I can only go to my supervisor and 
explain the situation to her. And she'll tell me, "Carl you can't do that." 
Aaron Paige (44:15): 
Because I do imagine that in your job, as you're talking to people, yes, you're talking to them about their 
care. But as people open up, I'm sure. 
Carl Tyler (44:24): 
Yes. 
Aaron Paige (44:25): 
They see you. 
Carl Tyler (44:26): 
Well, we don't just talk about the care. We talk to them about life. What have you been doing? We 
come. We get that out of the way, your medication. So now that you've been missing your 
appointments, what have you been doing? We want to know what... 
Aaron Paige (44:36): 
There might be other needs that come up. 
Carl Tyler (44:38): 
There you go. And usually, that's what happens. 
Aaron Paige (44:40): 
Right. And so that's what I'm kind of wondering. As people come to you and say, "Hey, look, I've got this 
other thing going on in my life where...Do you know about how I can connect to this kind of thing?" Or 
like, "I really need a job right now."Even if it's not official do you.... 
Carl Tyler (44:57): 
Yes. Yes. Yes. They have so much stuff going. We had a guy one time, he was going through cancer. He 
didn't tell nobody. He was taking chemo. He didn't tell nobody nothing. He was missing his 
appointments. It took a while for him to actually tell me what was going on. I asked him, I said, "Come 
on. Just be real for me for just one". I asked him, I said, "Did I ever lie to you? Anything I told you, did I 
get it done?" He said, "Yeah. Okay". I'm asking just one thing. "What's really going on?" He says, "Carl, I 
have cancer. Colon." Most men, when they have colon, they don't wanna tell nobody. Because that's a 
sensitive area. I probably wouldn't. You know? 
Carl Tyler (45:31): 
So now that I know that information, now it explains everything else. I bring it back. Now we change the 
way we work with him. I find out where he has to go when he does chemo. I make sure I give him a call 
after. "How was your day, man? How you feeling, did everything go okay?" These things are important. 
A lot of us don't have family. Quite as it's kept. There's a lot of people walking around. They don't have 
anybody. 
Aaron Paige (46:00): 
Do you see that a lot with the communities or the individuals that you're serving? 
Carl Tyler (46:03): 
Yes. I see families also putting them out because of the drug use, and the stealing and stuff like that. The 
families don't know what to do with their loved ones. They're just wishing and praying that something 
happens. God comes down. Well, that's just not the way it works, but it does work that way. You 
understand? It does work that way. And I can honestly say, I am a miracle. At the end of the day, like I 
said, this business, it just does something for me that nothing else has done for me. Not even drugs. This 
is better than drugs. I mean, when you hear somebody come to your office and they say "Thank you, Mr. 
Tyler, I know I was a shithead, you really held me down. I really..." It's priceless. 
Carl Tyler (46:46): 
I can't imagine to tell you, because I've never really had anybody do that to me. So I take it different 
than probably most. It's important to me. I want people to understand, it's not just about me, it's about 
you. And it's always about moving forward. And then people who look like myself, I have to keep 
constantly explaining to them, look, racism is institutional. There's not a goddamn thing we're going to 
be able to do about it. Unfortunately, it's just something that's been implemented from day one. And I 
get it, because if I were them, I probably would've done the same thing, too. But at some point, you just 
can't single out a whole...Oh man, I don't even know how to put it. I always hear from this company, 
"Color is not a problem." But that's a lie. The minute I walk in any door, it's always about that. Now, it's 
about where I come from and what I do. 
Carl Tyler (47:57): 
Socially, working, I get the respect that's due. Because usually people hear about me or they are here to 
talk to me or I did something. I get a different response. But I get the curiosity from other people. And 
they ask me all the time, just like you like you."Yo Carl, what is it like doing a home visit? You're on a Hep 
C team. How do you deal with your clients? And how is your record zero-zero. How's that possible?" 
Even the people here ask us to train their people. Well, we are not going to do that. It's not a training. 
This is something, you're born with it. It's just there. You're a people person. 
Aaron Paige (48:44): 
And lived it. 
Carl Tyler (48:46): 
And lived it. 
Aaron Paige (48:46): 
That's part of it, right? 
Carl Tyler (48:47): 
Yeah. So if you want me to train them, you have to compensate me. And the conversation I've seen here 
at fifty-nine cents for a raise, I don't even know what adult would tell another adult that. That's not a 
raise. A dollar an hour raise is not a raise. That's a slap in the face. To me, it's a slap in the face. After all 
of what we do, and we are not really thinking about money, but we would like to be compensated or 
recognized for the shit that we do. It doesn't happen. Except for some small favor or some written out 
shit they printed out and they give it to you. As an example. They give you some shit. Carl Tyler, my 
name, printed it off on printed paper. He did a wonderful job for six years. Whatever, that shit don't 
mean shit. It doesn't mean nothing to me. It means nothing to me. If you're going to recognize me for 
something, then recognize me for it. 
Carl Tyler (49:41): 
You know, compensate me. 
Aaron Paige (49:43): 
I couldn't agree more. 
Carl Tyler (49:44): 
Nobody wants to stay a peer. First of all, the peer thing is a good thing coming in. But after you've been 
here five or six years, that title shouldn't even be there. You know, you are an employee. And even 
though you're part-time, you do just as good a job as anybody else. As a matter of fact, sometimes I 
think my job is a little bit more intense than most people's job, because of all the stuff that we have to 
deal with. But for me, it's a natural. For you, you're not a thinker. I think I sleep maybe about six hours a 
night. Because my brain is...That's why I'm going back to school. Because I've always liked this food in 
my brain. I like to feed it. I like new stuff. I like to explore new stuff. And I want to be able to be better 
than what I am, in a sense that guidance, moving forward, family... 
Carl Tyler (50:31): 
That's another thing. I connect families also. I had a lot of parents, "Yo, he can't come in my house. Can't 
talk to him. I don't want talk to him on the phone." Blah, blah, blah, blah. A lot of our clients say they 
can't even talk to their parents. So I tell them give me the number, and I call them, and I talk to them like 
I'm talking to you now. And I extend that bridge. I get that first shot. Once you get the first shot, even if I 
can do it on the grounds here. You come in, "I need you guys to talk with each other. This is what's going 
on." And just give them a chance to try to mend things. And then after that, if it comes out good, then 
that's fantastic. Then I can just implement what I got to say and it's going to get better. And if it happens 
and it's still no good, I still can plant that seed. Everybody deserves a second chance. Okay? There's no 
one on this earth that's perfect. And if you think you are, then I already know I need to stay away from 
you, or that's some mental health shit. Because no one is perfect. 
Carl Tyler (51:27): 
And at the end of the day, he's still your family member. You want the best for him. A lot of times I set 
them up. I ask questions to set them up. "Oh yeah. I want the best for him, you know, but he's still using 
drugs and he stole all my jewelry." I said, "Listen, he was wrong for doing what he did. And I understand 
that. And I apologize to you for this. Okay. I'm sorry." I look him right in the eye and I tell them, "I'm 
apologizing for him, but he still loves you and he needs help. And in order for us to get him through, I 
need you to accept a call from him every now and then, even if he just calls and says hi. And you don't 
really want to talk to him to say, listen, I'm glad you're okay. I just don't want to talk to you right now. 
Hang with the phone." That is a start. That's my point. It's to get it started. Once it's lit, then it can 
bloom. Turn into a nice family fire. And that's the whole point. Because if you have no support, there's 
nobody telling you that you're gonna do well. These things break people down. 
Carl Tyler (52:26): 
I love hearing people tell me what a great job I did. I love to hear it. I want be recognized for it. Why? 
You want to know why? Because at the end of the day, I know that I did something for somebody else, 
other than myself, that was important to them. It's not a selfish job. You can't be selfish here. You have 
to give yourself. And you have to give time time too. 
Aaron Paige (52:52): 
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 
Carl Tyler (52:53): 
And I tell people all the time, "If you work with me and just give me the time, I promise you, things will 
change. If you want to go to school, I'll help you get in there." The first thing is first. If you're using, 
you've got to stop using. You've got to find some kind of substitute for it so that you're able to move 
forward. Because even if you do get the money, all the money you're going to get is only going to go 
back to the man, anyway. So what's the point of going through the process if you're not going to stay 
there and you're not going to... Excuse me, I've got to go again. 
Aaron Paige (53:21): 
Sure, sure. 
Carl Tyler (53:22): 
I think this medication, man, it's killing me. Alright, sorry about that. 
Aaron Paige (53:33): 
Oh, no worries. You know, one thing I think, and you've talked a little bit about it, but I just kind of want 
to ask it directly. What qualities do you see in yourself that you feel make you do this job well and 
effectively? 
Carl Tyler (53:49): 
I love people. I've always loved people. I've always been able to shine with other people. I've met other 
individuals. I wasn't on their level, but for some reason it just worked for me. People just took a liking to 
me. There's a lot of things that were involved. But like I said, as time goes on, there are favors that you 
do for people. And some favors that you do are priceless. People never forget you for them. So I have 
this knack for finding things. I've always been good at it. I've made a lot of money at it. And I've made a 
lot of friends at it. And at the end of the day, everybody just likes what I stand for. And I don't really care 
if they like it or not. This is something that I mentally, I made a choice. I chose to do this. There's no gray 
area. There's no nothing. All I know is that I know I needed a change. And I knew that there had to be 
other people that were like myself, who just didn't get the opportunity to talk about what they're going 
through or able to fix it. 
Carl Tyler (54:53): 
And a lot of the problems that a lot of people have, it be minor shit. Listen, let me tell you something. 
My grandmother always told me, if you have something in your life that's causing you pain, causing you 
harm. I don't care if it's a relative, you get rid of it. You cannot move forward working off the other 
activities of another person. And you have no control over what another person says or do. The only 
thing you get control over is what you do and how you see it. And I took that and I ran with it.