DOMESTIC WORKERS UNITED 
Interview Transcription: afc2015027_03401_ms02 
Interview with Lizeth ________ 
QUESTION: What’s your name? 
00:13 Hello, my name is Lizeth ________ 
QUESTION: Where are you from? 
00:18 I’m from Guatemala. I have three children. Two of them are here and one in Guatemala. 
QUESTION: Where in New York do you live at? 
00:28 I live in Brooklyn. 
QUESTION: And where are you from? 
00:34 I’m from Guatemala.  
QUESTION: … and how did you start working at the stop? (repeats it) 
00:55 I’m not a domestic worker. I’m a day laborer, because a domestic worker and a day laborer are 
two different things. A domestic worker has a steady income and a day laborer works by the day. 
QUESTION: And for how long have you been doing this job? 
01:25 I’ve been a day laborer for five years. 
QUESTION: And approximately how many employers have you had in those 5 years? 
1:43 Well, there have been different; many and different. 
QUESTION: have you ever had to go to same house? 
1:52 No. it’s always at different homes, different employers. 
QUESTION: Could you describe me the stop, and how did you get there? 
2:07 The stop is a corner where many women go daily. They are from different countries and colors, 
white, black, Hispanic, polish. Many new women arriver daily.  
QUESTION: And all looking for cleaning work? 
2:42 Yes, all looking for work as day laborers.  
QUESTION: When was the first time that you went to the stop?  How did you get there? 
2:55 I got to the stop because someone told me about it. It was like 5 years ago.  
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
1
QUESTION: What’s the daily routine at the stop? 
3:13 The routine is that you arrive, look for a place to stand, and wait a while to see if an employer 
comes. But you have to wait if he picks you, because it depends on the employer. If he’s from the 
community, he’ll look around and see which one he chooses to take.  
QUESTION: What happens while you’re there waiting for an employer?  
3:55 What happens? Well, I talk to some of colleagues, I ask them where she’s from, how long has she 
been going to the stop, do you have kids? How long have you been living in the United States? What do 
you do aside from coming here? I talk to many of them. I socialize with many.  
QUESTION: What are your responsibilities when you go there? (explains) 
04:37 Your responsibility on the stop is that… I don’t understand the question. Can you repeat the 
question? 
QUESTION: What are your responsibilities when you go there to work? 
04:55 My responsibility is that an employer arrives, I have to be responsible in that if he tells me a 
certain time, or gives me an address to go to, I have to be responsible to get there. 
QUESTION: What’s a good day like, and what is a good thing about being at the stop? (explains) 
05:42 The good thing about it is a day when I get a full day of work, and a bad day is when you’re there 
the whole day and don’t get anything. That’s the worst day, because I have my children too and I have 
to pay for a babysitter, so I need the money to pay that person. That’s the worst day you could have. 
QUESTION: How many women are on the stop? How’s your relationship with them?  
06:24 Many women go there. The minimum should be about 100 women daily. My relationship with 
them it’s sometimes good and sometimes bad, because there are many employers who go there looking 
for women who are somewhat skinnier, or younger, so when they pick you and leave the others behind, 
they feel somewhat jealous of you. So some of them are good and others are not. 
QUESTION: What skills do you need to work as a day laborer? (asks if domestic worker or day laborer) 
07:35 I am not a domestic worker. I am a day laborer. I need to educate myself more, to teach other 
people too, and to give my testimony. I need to educate myself more. That’s the skill I need. 
 QUESTION: What’s the necessary training to be a successful domestic worker?  
08:07 As I’ve mentioned, I’m not really a domestic worker. I do have my kids, but I do not work as a 
domestic worker. I am day laborer and don’t have a steady job. One day I have work, another day I 
don’t. A domestic worker has her steady job with a steady income, but I am a day laborer and I don’t 
have it. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
2
QUESTION: Do you have any specialty? 
08:48 A specialty is that I’m a mom of three kids. And my specialty is cleaning.  
QUESTION: What tricks do you use to make a child eat vegetables? 
09:11 There are different ways. The first is to do it with love. If it’s a baby I make baby sounds, if it’s my 
boy who’s older, or another kid who’s older, I’d tell him taste it, it’s delicious. Just taste is once and if 
you like it you can have more, but it’s really delicious. 
QUESTION: Do you feel that the amount of hours you work, as well as your days off, holidays and 
vacation time are respected? 
09:51 Honestly, not really. In that community where we go looking for employment, they don’t really 
respect the holidays. When their community has their holidays, we don’t get to work, but I have my 
holidays, they want me to go to work. This community doesn’t respect my holidays.  
QUESTION: Would you say that you or one of the others workers have been exploited due to your 
immigration status? 
10:34 Honestly, yes, many of us. I know many women who are afraid of immigration. And then I have to 
this or clean on my knees because I can’t find another job, and on this one I’d be okay. They pay under 
the table, and I don’t have to report it, many things. The truth is many of us… there’s also the language.  
QUESTION: Do you thing employers treat you differently because you’re a day laborer? 
11:12 Yes, they treat me differently because I’m a person who’s going to clean their apartment.  Those 
people don’t value the job that you do cleaning their apartment. They look at me differently because I’m 
from another religion. We come from a different place. The language also plays a role. They think that 
because many of us don’t speak English… there are many things.  
QUESTION: How do you feel when an employer arrives at the stop?  
12:15 I feel very afraid. First because of how he may look at me. Second, because if I go to clean at the 
apartment, I think how the home would be like. I start thinking about many things, because I don’t know 
what will happen there, because I go by myself, no one comes with me. It’s really scary. 
QUESTION: What are the risks and benefits of working at the stop?  
13:01 The risks are many because you never know what might happen while you’re there. And there 
could be people around there who may want to abuse you, abusive employers, or that they tell you let’s 
go clean my house my wife is there, but maybe the employer is actually by himself. I know people who 
have been abused because they are taken {by an employer} and when they get there, there’s no one 
else home.  
QUESTION: And the benefits? 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
3
13:55 The benefits are minimal. I would give it a 1 out of 5. First, if I get a job that day, and I leave my 
kids with the babysitter, at least I have the benefit that I’m getting work and I’ll be able to pay her. Or if I 
don’t have the money to eat the following day, now I’d have it. That’s the only benefit.   
QUESTION: Have you ever shred cultural or patrimonial things with the families you work with?  
14:39 No 
QUESTION: For example, no food or language, or folk tales 
14:50 Yes, once. I was sharing with an employer whom I thought was a nice person, but then I noticed 
that this person was looking for the oldest food in the fridge, and that’s when I noticed that he/she 
wasn’t a good person. So why share more things with her? 
QUESTION: So it’s not worth it then, you should just go to work and not develop a friendship, 
15:38 It was a person who was sick, and I like to listen, and that’s the conversation we were having, but 
sadly that person was still sick, and I tried listening to her, but it really wasn’t worth it. 
QUESTION:  How do you balance your personal, family and professional life?  
16:11 Right now I organize myself, because before when I worked… Now that I’m part of the Worker’s 
Justice Project, I am better organized, but before it was more complicated. Now I have more time to be 
able to organize myself on a personal level, a family level and professionally.  
QUESTION: Are you a member of other organizations or groups? 
17:00 I am only a member of the Worker’s Justice Project, and the co-op that comes from the Worker’s 
Justice Project, for Apple Eco-Cleaning Co-op. Yes, it’s the Apple Eco-Cleaning Co-op. 
QUESTION: When do domestic work, do you feel like you’re part of a larger community? 
17:30 no, not really, because I repeat, I’m not a domestic worker, I’m a day laborer. 
QUESTION: When and how did you get involved in the Worker’s Justice Program? How did you find it?  
17:48 It was at the stop. The girls would come to incite other people, and it called my attention. I went 
with them to a meeting. It was about 3 to 4 years ago. 
QUESTION: do you know anything about the domestic workers bill of rights? 
18:16 Honestly not, because the day laborer doesn’t have any rights. I don’t know if a domestic worker 
really has her rights, but a day laborer is kind of invisible. It’s like people don’t want to see her and they 
don’t have any rights: 
QUESTION: It affects you a lot to not have any rights as a day laborer. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
4
What would you like to see in the future in relation with the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights, or with 
other protections for domestic workers? 
19:14 First of all, every human being is valuable and most be valued. We all deserve the best. And for 
the day laborers, I want us to be respected, to have a fair salary, to end the abuse, and that the women 
can get educated like I was able to. To keep on going and for the m to join the Worker’s Justice Program. 
QUESTION: from your perspective, why is the Worker’s Justice Program and other groups that support 
domestic workers important?  
20:08 Wow. They’re very important because they provide many workshops, like the English one. The 
leadership too. Most of us have very low self-esteem and that also why we are abused. They offer 
workshops for leadership, English, organic products, and they keep offering more each day. My vision is 
that many women will be able to educate themselves, to move forward and get a good salary, and that 
we are more valued every day, and that our work is valued, and that it is a fair salary and well paid, and 
that there are no more thefts of our salary like it continues to happen to many of us on that stop. 
QUESTION: What do you want politicians to know about domestic workers?  
21:22 First of, that they value us like the human beings that we are, that they respect us. That we get a 
fair salary and that day laborers are viewed across the world as people who do honest work, and work 
hard and need a fair salary. 
QUESTION: What kind of education or training would you like to get?   
22:01 I want to have a better education in order to be able to educate others, so that they’re no longer 
abused by their employers.  
QUESTION: What skills did you learn from the Worker’s Justice Project, what kind of training did they 
offer you? 
22:26 There are many… There’s English classes, leadership classes, organic products, OSHA classes, 
training for professional home care takers, also technology and how to respect each other too.  
QUESTION: Tell me about the environment on the stop. What’s it like there at the stop? How do feel 
there?  
 23:16 Well, the truth is that it’s really hard. Many of the people who go there get there with just our 
fare. Sometimes we don’t even have lunch money, or any food. There’s no bathroom. We go through a 
lot. In the summer the sun is very strong. And as women we have many needs and have to make lots of 
sacrifices. We have to leave our children with a babysitter. In the winter there’s also a lot of cold. Many 
of us wear two or even three coats to protect ourselves from the cold. And many times we stay there for 
half a day and don’t get any work. I’ve gone through a lot of stuff while I’ve been on the stop, but now 
that I’m at the Apple Eco-Cleaning Co-op, I have a lot of benefits and I’ve been able to better myself. In 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
5
terms of educating myself, as well as having more time to be with my children, and also a better salary, 
which leaves me with some money left to at least be able to pay the babysitter.  
 QUESTION:  Approximately how many women go there each day? How is it there? 
25:06 There are few. Right now during the summer many have been left without a job, because there 
employers have gone out to the country side for vacation and many of them are left without 
employment. 
QUESTION:  Do any of them (the employers) ask to take you with them?  
25:33 Many of them yes. 
QUESTION:  You know of anyone who has gone out to the country side? 
25:39 I know a few. Some of those who don’ have any kids go. But those of us who have kids can’t go, 
because I can’t leave my kids behind. 
QUESTION:   And the salary?  
25:55 Well, the salary isn’t good. Some want to pay at $8, $9, others at $10. Also many times they don’t 
pay the whole rate. Many times they steal your salary and don’t want to pay you the whole thing.  
QUESTION:  And is it far from the stop, where they go? Or is it nearby? 
26:24 Well, I actually don’t know how long it takes them, but it’s kind of far.  
QUESTION:  In your own words, is there anything you would like to share?  
26:40 I want to keep educating myself. I will keep moving forward, for myself because if I educate 
myself, I’d be able to educate the others, look for more information, be able to move forward. And to 
continue to be part of the Worker’s Justice Project and Apple-Eco Cleaning, and continue to support all 
the other women. My vision is that one day all of those women also have a better salary and are valued 
at a worldwide level. Mostly to have a good future and a good salary. Something that is key is that 
women take care of their health because many in that community get sick. You also do a lot mopping on 
your knees and that makes you deteriorate daily, because it hurts your back a lot, the knees start to turn 
purple. My vision is that one day all of those women don’t have to do it anymore. 
 QUESTION:  Have you ever had to work on your knees?  
28:18 Yes, I had to mop on my knees for almost two years, and I did it because of the need that I had. 
Before getting to the Workers justice Project I was very depressed. Working with those people in that 
community… I just let time pass by, and when I realized it two years had gone by and it came to a point 
where I had to put a stop to it and tell them that I could no longer work with them because my knees 
and lower back were hurting a lot. Because when I used to get home, I could get out of bed. So I spoke 
to them and tell them that if they needed it done, they had to provide me with a mop. So they gave me 
the mop, and that’s why I stayed with them. 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
6
QUESTION:  In the same house? 
29:33 In the same house, but that’s where I established my own rules, because if you don’t make your 
own rules, and go to the house of that community with fear. That’s why you don’t defend yourself, 
because you’re so scared, and have so much need 
QUESTION:   And sometimes you don’t have the knowledge 
29:59 You don’t have knowledge and more that anything is the need. 
QUESTION:  To demand our rights 
30:05 Yes, and that is why I will keep educating myself. So that other women can get educated and 
express themselves and speak up. Because fear is failure and we have to educate ourselves for to make 
them appreciate our job and value us as people and recognize our rights. 
Thank you  
  
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Domestic Workers United 
 afc2015/027
7