Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship 
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
1 
Project:  Nursing America's Veterans 
Name of person interviewed: 
Dr. Donna L. Cook (DC) 
Facts about this person: 
Sex (Female) 
Occupation (Psychiatric Clinical Nurse Specialist) 
Residence (San Diego, CA) 
Interviewer: Alana Glaser (AG) 
Transcriber:  Holly A. Massanelli (HAM) 
Interview location: remote  
Date of interview: 
3/1/21 
Key Words 
San Diego, California; Hattiesburg, Mississippi; African American, teaching, Flint, Michigan; 
VA, Jackson State University, health sciences, University of South Mississippi, psychiatric 
nursing, Hurley Medical Center, Wayne State University, disparities in healthcare, diversity 
issues, PTSD, telecommuting, El Cajon, psychiatric clinical nurse specialist, Point Loma 
Nazarene University, Bachelor’s of Science in Nursing; doctorate, University of San Diego, 
Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., African American women, nursing instructor, doctorate, 
COVID. 
Abstract 
In this interview, Dr. Donna L. Cook describes her journey to becoming a nurse, nursing 
instructor, and receiving her doctorate.  She talks about deciding to go into the mental health 
field of nursing, and she describes how much she loves to work for Veterans Administration 
(VA). Dr. Cook also describes what it has been like to be a nurse throughout the pandemic and 
what she has learned from it.  Finally, Dr. Cook explains how nursing is one of the most 
important professions and to be a voice for those who don’t have one. 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
2 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
Index 
 
[0:00] Introduction of Dr. Donna L. Cook, she discusses being born in Hattiesburg, Mississippi 
and then moving to Flint, Michigan at 8 years old. 
 
[03:45]  Donna describes what her favorite subjects and extracurricular activities were growing 
up, including reading and playing the flute. 
 
[06:25]  Donna describes when and why she decided to become a nurse.  She also describes the 
journey she went on to finally end up working as a psychiatric clinical nurse specialist, teaching 
nursing school, and receiving her doctorate degree.  
 
[24:59]  Donna discusses her dissertation that was on African American females perceptions of 
beauty in a Eurocentric aesthetic. 
 
[35:59]  Donna talks about how many years she’s been nursing and the joys of working for the 
VA, and all the staff and programs that they offer.  She also talks some about teaching and the 
shortage of nursing instructors. 
 
[44:11]  Donna talks about how long she’s worked at this facility, the therapy she does, and how 
much patient care she does. 
 
[47:51]  Donna discusses what a typical day is like for her at the VA and how many patients she 
interacts with.  She explains the 30-day review her facility does for their patients.  Donna 
describes the challenges for veterans with PTSD and what it’s like for her to be so close to this 
level of trauma and the hardest aspects of the job. 
 
[1:01:29]  Donna discusses the multidisciplinary approach to psychiatric nursing and the 
managerial role. 
 
[1:06:28]  Donna explains how COVID has affected her job facility and the VA nationwide, and 
the precautionary changes they had to make because of it.  She also discusses how COVID has 
affected healthcare across the county and the hesitancy when I comes to take the vaccine. 
 
[1:16:06]  Donna discussed how she learned that education and research are key when it comes 
to the pandemic. 
 
[1:19:52]  Donna describes her role in patient care and how it has changed over the years and 
how important it is to be the voice for the people that don’t have one.  She also describes the 
importance of education and research for nurses. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
3 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
[1:24:22]  Donna discusses the people who have influenced or mentored her over the years, and 
if and how the VA has changed over the years.  
 
[1:28:18]  Donna discusses being member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. and why it’s a 
big part of her life. 
 
[1:30:23]  Donna concludes by saying she loved the interview and emphasized how appreciative 
she is to be alive during this time of so much history taking place. 
 
[1:32:32] End of audio 
 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
4 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG:  Hi.  Thank you so much for joining these interviews.  Can I ask you to introduce yourself? 
 
DC:  Yes, I’m Dr. Donna L. Cook, San Diego, California.  
 
AG:  Wonderful.  Can we start with just a few questions about your background, growing up, 
your experiences with early schooling, that kind of thing?  Where are you from?  Where were 
you born? 
 
DC:  Well, I was born in Hattiesburg, Mississippi to two educators, African American educators.  
Both my mom and my dad are teachers, and in fact, I’m third generation college educated, 
because my father’s mother was a cooking instructor and my mother’s mother was a primary 
school teacher, so that was pretty unlikely in those ages, but I am third generation college 
educated, proud to say. 
 
AG:  Did your parents also grow up in Hattiesburg?  Were they born and raised there as well? 
 
DC:  Yes, they both are from Mississippi.  Both are from small towns in Mississippi, which is 
where they met, yes. 
 
AG:  Wonderful.  And they taught secondary school or primary school? 
 
DC:  Primary school, and my mom was an English teacher, and my father was an athletic coach, 
as well as a primary school teacher in Mississippi.  And unfortunately, they separated and 
divorced, and my father moved to Ohio and I moved with my family, with my mom and my 
brother.  We moved to Flint, Michigan.  Kind of like the end of the great migration when a lot of 
African Americans moved north for better opportunities and good jobs and things like that.  At 
the time when we relocated in Flint, Michigan, although my mother was in education, the 
General Motors factories were at their hiatus during that time.  It was a really good place to live.  
Flint, Michigan was thriving.  That’s where union started, home of the first sit down strike, and 
there was a lot of industry there.  The schools were thriving.  Jobs were plentiful.  People made 
good salaries.  They worked really hard in the factories, but it was just a really, really good time 
and good economy.  And I really, really enjoyed growing up in Flint, Michigan.  The school 
system was very astute, got a good education, grew up in a good neighborhood.  Life was good.  
Things were really, really going well for me.  I had a beautiful childhood.  Still had contact with 
my father, even though they were divorced.  He was still always very much a part of my life.  
I’m a daddy’s girl, proud to say.  Always will be.  I love my mom but I’m definitely a daddy’s 
girl.  Yeah, just had a lot of support, and love, and encouragement growing up.  I think I had a 
very, very good childhood. 
 
AG:  What age were you when you moved to Flint? 
 
DC:  I was probably about 8, because I was in third grade.  I got my start in catholic school in 
Hattiesburg, Mississippi, and interestingly enough I was one of the first African American 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
5 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
students at Sacred Heart Elementary School, and it was a very, very good experience.  I was one 
of the first black kids to integrate that school.  It was a very good experience.  I don’t really 
remember much discrimination.  I was very smart.  A lot of times they would kind of use me to 
compare my academic prowess against other Caucasian children and always came out well.  I 
think I got a very, very, good fundamental start at catholic school at Sacred Heart in Mississippi.  
And then, as I said, we moved to Michigan.  
 
[03:45] AG:  What were some of your favorite subjects growing up? 
 
DC:  I’ve always been really, really good at reading.  I’ve always had an aptitude for reading.  
Math not so much, but I’ve always loved to read.  And my mom tells this story about -- because 
in Mississippi, they have something called head start, which is like pre-kindergarten.  And 
because my parents were working, I got to go to head start.  I got a jump start on my education.  
And my mom tells a story that she says I was a born teacher.  She said the teachers left the room 
for a minute and came back, and I was standing in front of the class teaching, “T, turtle,” and the 
kids were looking like what is going on.  And they were much younger than me.  I’m sorry, they 
were older than me, because I went early.  So, they were probably 5 and 6, and I was like 3.  And 
she swears I was up at the front of the classroom teaching at 3 years old. 
 
AG:  That’s incredible. 
 
DC:  Yes.  I’ve always had an interest in teaching and education.  
 
AG:  And did you have like social activities or extracurriculars that you enjoyed at that time? 
 
DC:  Yes, my mother was -- not only was she an English teacher, but she was also in drama and 
theater [00:05:00], and so she would put me in plays, and the typical Easter speeches, and things 
like that I enjoyed.  When we moved to Michigan and I got to elementary school, I discovered 
that I had an ear for music.  And so, she put me in piano lessons.  And I played by ear, so I would 
go the first few lessons, and I’d get the lesson, and I would hear it and I would play it, right?  
Didn’t practice or anything.  But I wasn’t learning music, and so eventually my mom told the 
music teacher, “She doesn’t know her notes.”  And the music teacher was like, “Yeah, she does.  
She’s playing everything.”  And then, she said, “Okay, what note is that?”  I was like, “Q.”  The 
gig was up at that point, and I kind of regret.  I wish I had continued those piano lessons.  But 
anyway, then in fourth grade, they had a demonstration at school; they had different musicians 
displaying different instruments, and I saw the flute and I fell in love with it.  I started learning to 
play the flute in fourth grade.  I played flute all through elementary school, junior high, high 
school, and interestingly enough in college.  So, I still play by ear but I learned to read music.  
So, every now and then I pull out the old flute and dust it off, and I still got it. 
 
[06:25]  AG:  That is incredible.  Now, when you were growing up, do you remember visiting a 
doctor or a healthcare provider in those early years? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
6 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
DC:  Yes.  I’ve always had an aptitude for wanting to help people.  I’ve always had that kind of 
spirit.  And it’s interesting that you ask, because as a child, I actually wanted to be a veterinarian.  
Always.  I’m a Sagittarian, you know, we love the outdoors and animals.  So, I’ve always loved 
animals and I’ve always had an affinity for animals, especially dogs.  Always have been a dog 
lover.  So, probably in junior high I started visiting -- because we always had dogs and cats, but 
mostly dogs.  So, I started visiting our local vet, who was taking care of our animals.  So, I 
expressed an interest and wanted to be a vet.  They would let me come and volunteer on 
Saturdays and, you know, do what I could being a kid, but I would tend to the animals and go in 
as they were treating the animals, and I really, really wanted to be a vet.  But what I decided was 
my heart was so tender in terms of animals, it was almost too much to bear, because I could 
never fathom having to put an animal to sleep.  I don’t like to see animals in pain.  And so, I said, 
well, if I’m gonna be a vet, I would only want to treat dogs, and I would only want to treat well 
dogs or dogs that aren’t really sick.  So, by the time I specify like that, I’m not gonna have very 
much to practice, so I decided I better find another line of work. 
 
AG:  That makes sense.  And do you -- 
 
DC:  (inaudible - 00:08:03) very much love animals. 
 
AG:  Oh, wonderful.  Do you remember when you decided to become a nurse? 
 
DC:  I do.  Again, I always knew I wanted to do something in the health field, so when I went off 
to college, I was going to be a physical therapist.  That was my claim to fame; I wanted to 
be a physical therapist.  Well, I went to Jackson State University.  That’s where I started 
off, which is a historical black university.  Had a great time there.  I was in the marching 
band there and really enjoyed my time there.  But unfortunately, at that time -- this was in 
the early 80s, they didn’t have a program where you could complete any of the health 
sciences, so you just had a general major of health sciences.  Those of us that were going 
into specific health field just majored in health sciences, and then you’d have to transfer to 
another university to complete your studies.  So, that left me in a position where I had to 
transfer.  And so, I transferred from historically black university to a predominantly white 
university.  Now, I do feel like this black university really, really socially prepared me, 
gave me the confidence to be able to compete at any level at any university.  The social 
aspect was wonderful, because I met with, or got to know and befriended, and socialized 
with African American kids from all over the country.  So, we all had our little groups.  
There was a Michigan group, the Chicago group, that kind of thing.  And this is also where 
my mom and her twin sister, and all of my relatives went to school.  That was pretty neat.  
It was a family tradition to attend Jackson State University, so they all kind of had a fit 
when I transferred, but I had to do what I had to do.  But anyway, so just a wonderful 
experience socializing.  One of the unique things about historically black colleges and 
universities is that they’re usually smaller and the faculty are usually [00:10:00] African 
American and they really, really take a personal interest in you in terms of where you’re 
from, what your major is, encouraging you.  If you don’t come to class, they’ll give you a 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
7 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
call, “Hey, you missed my class.  What’s going on?”  That kind of thing.  So, there’s really 
a real personal touch to that relationship between the staff and the students.  Again, it’s a 
lot of fun, but you still have to be serious about your studies.  But from that experience, I 
think it really, really prepared me for southern Mississippi.  University of Southern 
Mississippi is where I transferred too.  Now, what’s interesting about that is during the time 
my parents were growing up, my dad tells a story of when he was a young man, that was a 
university that he couldn’t even step foot on unless you were cleaning, or cooking, or 
something like that.  You were prohibited from even, you know, being on that campus as 
an African American.  So, he was proud that his daughter was able to attend that university, 
just looking historically.  And my dad isn’t that old, so there was a time in the 60s when he 
couldn’t even be one the campus.  And I think he did work on that campus as a custodian 
or something like that when he was going to school.  So I had beautiful experience at the 
University of Southern Mississippi.  When I transferred there, that’s when I decided I think 
I want to have a profession that gives me a little bit more flexibility in terms of the setting 
that I work with, the population that I work with, but something just drew me to nursing.  I 
really believe nursing is a calling.  I think it takes a very special person to be a nurse.  It 
really is a spiritual calling.  And so, as I transferred to USM, I changed my major from 
physical therapy to nursing.  Best decision I ever made.  And I had a really, really good 
experience.  My instructors were very dynamic and very supportive.  It was a very, very 
tough curriculum, but I excelled.  I like to tell the story of all during my nursing career, I 
was planning on being a nurse midwife.  So, deliver babies, that was my thing.  And then, 
my very, very last semester of my bachelor’s program in nursing was a psych rotation.  
That’s usually how it works.  Usually in nursing school your last rotation is a psych 
rotation.  I think it should be the first rotation actually, but anyway.  I really, really enjoyed 
it.  It was something I hadn’t thought of, and I had an instructor -- my psychiatric nursing 
instructor was Kate Hobson (ph), an African American instructor, and she said, “You 
know, I think -- have you considered specializing in mental health or psychiatry?  I think 
you have a real aptitude for it.”  And I said, “Really?”  And she said, “Yeah, I think you 
should consider it.”  That was all the confirmation I needed.  I decided then that I wanted to 
go into psychiatric nursing.  Now, a lot of times in nursing school, they’ll say you need to 
do med-surg and practice that for a while and then go into your specialty.  And I think there 
are some advantages to that, but for me I knew that I wanted to do psych, and so after 
graduating, I went back to Michigan to start my nursing career and worked at a major 
medical center, Hurley Medical Center, went directly into psych.  One of the good things at 
that time was that although I was assigned to the mental health unit, we would get assigned 
to other medical units as well if they were short staffed.  And so, that allowed me to keep 
practicing my medical skills as well as psychiatric skills.  But for the most part, I remained 
in psychiatry.  So, my first job was inpatient psychiatry.  We had patients who were mostly 
involuntarily admitted.  Those are the most chronically ill patients, but I really, really 
enjoyed the work and felt like I was where I wanted to be.  Loved nursing.  As I said, I 
think it takes a special person, a special calling to be a nurse and I think it takes a special 
calling to be a mental health or psychiatric nurse. That’s a whole other specialty area, and a 
lot of people shy away from it.  A lot of people don’t understand it.  A lot of people don’t 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
8 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
understand why we do psychiatric nursing.  But it’s so rewarding.  It really, really is, and 
there’s so many specialty areas that you can work in in mental health nursing.  You can 
work with children, you can work with the geriatric population, you can work with the 
well, mentally ill, those that just need counseling, you can work with the chronically 
mentally ill.  There are different settings you can work in.  You can work in a school.  You 
can work in a hospital.  You can work in a clinic.  You can teach.  All of that.  That’s what 
I love about nursing is the versatility.  You never get tired, because [00:15:00] once you 
want to do something else, there’s another area you can specialize in or transfer too.  So, I 
had a Bachelor of Science and Nursing at that time, and I consider myself a lifelong 
learner, so I wanted to know more, elevate the profession, wanted to enhance my clinical 
skills, so I decided I wanted to pursue a master’s degree in nursing.  And so, I enrolled at 
Wayne State University in Detroit, and that’s where I pursued my master’s degree.  Now, 
undergraduate nursing, you get exposed to a little bit of everything, but I think once you get 
in the work field, you can really, really see what area you want to specialize in.  The beauty 
of graduate school is that you can focus on your specialty area.  Although I was in a class 
with other nurses from various backgrounds; it could be critical care, it could be 
neonatology, it could be nurse, whatever, but you would gear your papers, and your 
research, and things like that to your specific specialty area.  So, that makes it more 
interesting, because you’re doing what you’re specifically interested in, so I really enjoyed 
that.  So, I got my master’s degree in an adult psychiatric mental health, and that’s also 
where I kind of got bit by the research bug during my master’s thesis.  My master’s thesis 
was on social support and codependency and self-esteem in the African American female.  
Here’s where I really started to hone in on cultural issues, looking at diversity issues, 
disparities in healthcare based on race and things like that.  I’m really, really passionate 
about things that impact women and things that impact people of color, and also things that 
impact that women of color, particularly African American since that’s what I happen to be 
an expert at, being an African American woman.  So, I really enjoyed the research process.  
I was living in Flint.  I enjoyed my job, but I just kind of felt like at that time Flint was 
starting to, you know, lose its economic based, because, you know, factories were closing, 
and schools were closing.  Once that financial impact happens it is kind of like a domino 
effect. So, schools were closing, hospitals were closing.  It just became a very depressed 
economy, and I just kind of felt like there’s probably more life out there than Flint, 
Michigan.  I decided I wanted to leave all that I had known and all that I grew up with.  It 
was a big move, but it wasn’t a difficult move.  I like to tell the story where I pretty much 
threw a dot on the map.  I didn’t want to go anywhere where it was cold, because I was 
kind of over the whole snow thing, coming from Flint. Didn’t want to go to the south, 
because the earning potential in the south was still very much behind the rest of the 
country.  Typically, they don’t have nursing unions or unions period in the south, and I 
really wanted to go somewhere where they were unionized.  Those are some of the factors I 
took into consideration.  At the time, my brother lived in Las Vegas, so I thought about 
Vegas, but you have the strip, but not much after that.  I thought about Arizona, but it’s 
really hot there.  So, then it kind of led me to California, and then I relatives in Northern 
California, but North California, of course, there’s a lot of culture, there’s a lot of industry, 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
9 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
but I felt like it really didn’t have that California feel that I was looking for.  So, then I 
narrowed it down to Southern California.  Though about LA, but coming from little itty 
bitty Flint, I felt like LA may be too fast for me.  So, I settled on San Diego.  I came out 
and visited San Diego.  I’m a very intuitive person, so I kind of wanted to come out and see 
if I could fell -- see if it felt right intuitively, if I could imagine myself living here.  It was 
like coming home.  It really was.  I felt like it was a very homey, family oriented 
environment.  It wasn’t difficult to get around.  It was beautiful.  I love the climate.  I 
wanted to sit out and just take a risk, and I stepped out on faith, didn’t have a whole lot of 
money saved.  I think if I knew then what I know now, I probably would have been too 
terrified to move, but I had a couple thousand dollars.  I came out ahead of time and found 
an apartment, because I didn’t want to be traveling around San Diego trying to find an 
apartment with a U-Haul.  I did prepare that much.  I did get my California nurse’s license, 
so I had that in tow, [00:20:00] but I didn’t have a job and I didn’t know anyone out here.  
But I came out, found a nice apartment that I was determined to be able to afford and 
settled in and then started job hunting.  I was very fortunate to secure employment within a 
couple weeks.  And I worked as a nurse manager at a crisis house, which is -- I don’t know 
if you’re familiar with crisis houses, but they are mental health stabilization houses for 
mental health patients who aren’t quite ill enough to be in the hospital.  They’re stable 
enough where they don’t need to be in the hospital, but not stable enough to be on their 
own.  So, it’s kind of like an intermediary step.  So, they would stay anywhere from two 
weeks to four weeks.  It was a very homey environment and the system that I worked in, 
they had five different locations, so I worked at one here in San Diego.  The area is called 
El Cajon, so I worked there.  And it was a lot of fun.  It was very, like I said, homey 
environment.  We would create a home environment for them, so they had a bedroom, we 
had a kitchen, they would cook.  It was kind of patient run.  Of course, staff was there to 
supervise, but they pretty much, you know, ran their program.  They had to do laundry, 
light chores.  We didn’t work them too hard, but they had light chores to do.  Just kind of 
simulating a home environment for them.  Fully staffed.  We had therapy for them.  They 
had psychoeducation.  We had a psychiatrist that would do their medications.  It was a 
really, really nice setup for them.  So, I enjoyed working there.  And then, from there, I got 
an opportunity to work for San Diego County, and as a psychiatric clinical nurse specialist.  
That job involved more of the educational piece for staff.  I would basically do the 
education for staff.  Some patient interaction, but mostly doing the psychiatric education 
for staff.  New employee, orientation.  If there were issues with say learning about a 
diagnosis, then I would educate the staff on that, or safety issues.  I also did infection 
control.  So, here is where I really got to excel as an educator, the education piece.  I think 
nurses are educators by profession.  We do a lot of education, so that was right in 
alignment.  I had also started my nursing education career teaching.  Actually, I started it 
back in Michigan before I left, but I continued that in San Diego as well.  My first teaching 
job was with the University of Michigan, and having a master’s, I taught students in the 
bachelor program.  Enjoyed that tremendously.  And then, when I came to San Diego, I 
taught at Point Loma Nazarene University, which is another outstanding university.  I had 
taught psychiatric nursing.  Really enjoyed it.  I’m a tough instructor, but I’m fair, and I 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
10 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
make learning fun.  At least, that’s what my students tell me.  I did that while I was going 
to school.  So, once I got here in San Diego, worked at County, and then decided that I 
wanted to go back to school again to pursue my doctoral degree.  So, that was a big, tall 
order.  So, I ended up attending the University of San Diego, which is a magnificent 
university, very strong nursing program.  I was very much embraced by the faculty and 
staff there.  They were very, very excited about my attending USD.  They’re very, very 
supportive of minorities, and so they welcomed me, helped me -- I paid for some of it 
myself, but they also helped me to get some funding to support my education.  And again, 
got into research.  Enjoyed all of the curriculum that was there.  Again, it was very 
challenging.  I remember when I was interviewed, I told them, “Well, I plan on finishing 
my doctorate in a couple years.  Little did I know.  They just smiled and said it may take 
you more than a couple of years, kiddo, but I’m thinking oh, yeah, I’ll finish in two years.  
But anyway, I started in I want to say ’99 or something like that, or 2000, and ended up 
finishing in 2006.  I went to school full-time, worked full-time, and also had my adjunct 
professorship, so it took a while.  I finished the courses in about four years, and then it took 
me another two years or so to finished my dissertation.  Any questions so far?  Am I doing 
okay? 
 
AG: [24:59]  This is wonderful.  Thank you [00:25:00] so much.  I don’t want to interrupt you.  
What was your dissertation on? 
 
DC:   I’m so glad you asked.  Again, looking at combining my interest in mental health and 
looking at some of the issues I dealt with, my dissertation was on African American 
females perceptions of beauty in a Eurocentric aesthetic.  Basically, what I looked at is that 
in this country, the standard of beauty if blonde hair, blue eyes, and 110 pounds and there’s 
absolutely nothing wrong with that.  But for black women or women of color who don’t 
necessarily fit that mold, how do we come to appreciate our beauty, our physical 
characteristics and other things that society says makes us physically beautiful.  How do we 
come to appreciate that when we live in a society that doesn’t necessarily recognize or 
acknowledge the diversity of our beauty.  And so, it was very, very interesting.  It was a 
qualitative study that I did from -- it was ground theory, and I did it from a black feminist 
perspective.  That was really empowering, because black feminist theory says that your 
story is true, and it’s real, and it’s valid, because it’s your lived experience.  So, typically, 
with traditional methods it’s all about counting the numbers, it’s about measuring.  There’s 
not a lot of -- from some people’s perspective, there’s not a lot of academic rigor in the 
story telling.  But that was consistent with African history, which storytelling is very much 
a part of our history and also validating, again, it’s valid, because it’s my story.  So, I really 
love that doesn’t lack any academic rigor, but I love being able to come from that 
perspective.  So, I interviewed African American women of different ages and I started out 
with a color palette, which asked them what color did they think they were most -- you 
know, how when you do foundation, there’s a color palette, what color did they see 
themselves most closely resembling.  That was the first question.  And then, secondly, I 
asked them to pick another color, if they had a magic wand, and I asked them to change 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
11 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
their color, what color would they pick, and they could not pick the same color, because 
that was too easy.  It was easy to say, oh, I’m happy with my color.  So, they could go up or 
they could go down in terms of shade.  Some preferred a dark shade, some preferred a 
lighter shade.  It just kind of depended.  And it really didn’t matter what they picked, but 
that was kind of the opening conversation to get into a lot of the nuisances that we still 
struggle with as African Americans in terms of colorism.  It’s kind of a throwback from 
slavery days.  You were given an assignment, laborious assignment, usually based on the 
color of the skin.  So, those who were of a lighter hue usually were biracial, mullatos, and 
they tended to get different assignments.  Now a lot of people think, oh, well, you know, 
the ones in the fields were, you know, working hard and things like that.  But as we look at 
the historical piece, those that were of lighter hue did not have it easy as well.  A lot of 
times, they were sexually taken advantage of.  They were treated very poorly inside the 
house, so they may not have had the physical -- not to minimize that, but they may not have 
had the physical challenges, but they had psychological challenges just as well.  So, we 
looked at that.  Some of my interview questions included who was the first women that you 
thought was beautiful?  And invariably, most of my participants listed their mother.  They 
said their mother was the most beautiful that they ever -- or the person that they first saw as 
beautiful.  Not only for her physical characteristics, but a lot of them said because of her 
grace, her beauty, her strength, her style, her intelligence.  It wasn’t just her physical 
appearance.  So, most of the young ladies said that’s who they saw as beautiful.  In terms of 
the research findings, what I discovered was that we all pretty much come into this world a 
blank slate.  Our families are our first point of contact and first give us the messages, even 
positively or negatively, about how well we are loved, and accepted, and appreciated.  
Dads played a big factor.  So, maybe that family would say, you know, you’re my beautiful 
little chocolate girl, or their family may ridicule them for their skin color, or maybe one 
family member would give preferential treatment of a lighter skinned [00:30:00] child over 
a darker skinned child, or that lighter skinned child could have been treated poorly because 
of envy.  You think you’re better than us, because you’re of lighter skin.  So, there were a 
lot of different experiences that people had and very painful experiences a lot of times 
based on how they were treated.  And then, the next system would be the school system.  
That’s the next point of entry where we would get messages about acceptance or not being 
accepted.  Was there a teacher who discriminated against you because of how you looked 
or things like that based on your skin color.  So, that really, really shaped the self-esteem of 
a lot of little girls in terms of how they felt about themselves.  Back then, it was lighter skin 
with long hair, especially if you were of mixed race, and the good hair, bad hair, if your 
hair was more straight or curly like Caucasians, sometimes you were considered more 
attractive or more popular.  If your hair was more of a natural kinky state, sometimes you 
were ridiculed or not considered attractive.  So, that was another issue.  And then, we move 
to the media.  So, as we get older, we see the media and mostly driven by Caucasian males, 
and they’re giving us the messages of what’s considered attractive.  And again, this is not a 
concept that’s unique to black women.  All of us are subjected to that, but I still believe that 
the closer you are to whatever that standard of beauty that is being put before you, the 
easier it is to kind of identify and says, okay, well, if that’s the standard of beauty I’m 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
12 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
pretty close to that or I’m way far away from that.  That’s how we, you know, tend to judge 
ourselves.  I think society has gotten a lot better.  We’re seeing more diverse images of 
beauty, but still even in the African American community, even though someone may be of 
a darker hue or a brown hue, very seldom will that have more Afrocentric features and be 
considered beautiful.  Usually they still have very European features even if they are of a 
darker hue.  Again, we’re getting better and it’s so important for especially young girls.  All 
girls but especially young African American girls to see people that look like them, to see 
diversity and variety, and to get the message that the way my hair grows out of my head is 
perfectly fine and I don’t have to change it.  That’s something that is very influential in 
terms of how we feel about ourselves. So, going back to the study, what I found was that at 
a certain age, we either embrace the white standard of beauty -- so, that’s where a lot of 
times you see black women dying their hair blonde, or wearing blue contacts, or things like 
that, trying to look at that image of beauty and trying to match it, or they may go in the 
other direction and becoming very -- I don’t want to say militant, but very Afrocentric.  
That’s kind of the route that I took.  For a while, everything was Afrocentric and my dress, 
my hair, I wore braids, so just really embracing my cultural identity, you know, which is 
another way of accepting I’m different, I’m beautiful based on who I am and the cultural 
aspect.  The other way I found people try to mitigate that is to find some other asset that 
would level the playing field.  They may say well, I might not look like this beautiful 
standard of beauty, but I’m very smart, I’m very athletic, or I’m a great leader.  So, that 
was another way to, again, level the playing field and find a sense of self-esteem, and 
value, and self-worth.  So, that’s probably during our young years, our formidable years, 
our young working years, and then what I found is I interviewed older African American 
women is we start to find our voice and come into our own.  So, it’s not so much about 
what you look like and what your body shape is and things like that.  Not that we don’t 
want to look good.  We still want to look good, but there’s more of a spiritual transition to 
where you focus more on am I good person, am I living a life of integrity, am I happy, am I 
taking care of myself, do I have people in my life that are supportive that are good to me, 
that are good for me.  And those things tend to take precedent over what I look like.  We 
come to accept our bodies, the good, the bad, and ugly, the pimples, the warts, the 
barnacles, hey, this is what it is and [00:35:00] I’m gonna work with what I got.  Again, it’s 
not that you don’t care about your physical appearance but there’s just a level of acceptance 
I think that comes along with age and wisdom where you’re just not so focused on that.  
Yeah, that’s what I found out.  And it was a beautiful thing when women come into their 
own and focus on what they think is really important and not so much the physical 
attributes.  And then, just embracing all that we are and all of the different beauties about 
being African American is that we have different complexions across the rainbow and we 
can wear our hair in different ways, and it’s all beautiful.  It’s all wonderful, it’s all 
beautiful, and it’s all very empowering when you come from that perspective. 
 
AG: Absolutely.  This dissertation was in the service of a PhD in nursing, correct? 
 
DC: Absolutely, yeah. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
13 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
AG: That’s terrific, yeah.  You’ve got this sociological/psychological melding. 
 
DC: Yeah. 
 
[35:59]  AG:  Well, very terrific.  Wow.  So, just to back up for a quick second, how many years 
have you been a nurse? 
 
DC:  I got my undergraduate degree in 1987.  That’s quite a few years.  That’s over, what, 30 
years? 
 
AG:  Yeah.  And you’ve been teaching for bulk of that as a nurse educator and then doing -- 
 
DC:  Yeah, I stopped teaching about maybe 8 or 10 years ago, just because it was pretty taxing 
and I wanted to just kind of focus on my career at the VA.  And I have to tell you how I 
ended up at the VA.  But I miss it, and after retirement I may get back into it again.  One of 
the unfortunate things about nursing education is that the pay is not really as commiserate 
as it should be, and that’s just general in education period.  I think if we paid nursing 
instructors -- educators across the board actually, I think if they got paid more, I think we 
would see more people going into nursing, because the interest in nursing is still there.  
There are waiting lists for people wanting to get into nursing school, but there aren’t 
enough instructors.  You can only have so many students in a class, and so there aren’t 
enough nursing instructors, and that’s why there’s such a waitlist for nursing schools.  So, I 
think if we paid them better, but yeah, there’s just no economic advantage to coming out of 
clinical setting to teach full time.   That’s one of the reasons why like I said sadly enough I 
didn’t pursue it full-time. 
 
AG: I see. 
 
DC: ‘Cause I have to make a decent living. 
 
AG: Certainly. 
 
DC: Yeah. 
 
AG:  After you completed your PhD, did you switch jobs?  Was that to facilitate a different roll? 
 
DC:  No, I was in the same -- as I said, I was working at the County when I first started the PhD 
program.  And sitting in class one day with one of my wonderful colleagues, and we were 
just chatting before class, and she said, “I got a call today giving me a job offer at another 
institution.”  And she said, “I told them no, thank you.  I love where I work.  I look forward 
to going to work every day.”  And I quickly turned around.  I said, “What?”  I’ve had some 
jobs that I’ve enjoyed, but I’ve never had a job where I look forward to going to work 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
14 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
every single day.  I was like, “Where do you work?”  She said, “I work for the VA.”  I was 
like, “Really?”  And she started saying how much she loved it, how much she loved 
working with vets.  I’m not a military person, so I wasn’t familiar with that.  But she really 
talked about how much she loved her job and working with veterans.  I said, “Well, check 
and see if there are any positions for advance practice nurses in mental health.”  She said, 
“Okay, I’ll check.”  So, she checked and low and behold there was a position available.  
And so, I interviewed and the rest is history.  So, I ended up leaving the county and 
working for the VA.  Absolutely love it.  She was absolutely right.  I look forward to going 
to work every day.  So, I started working here in 2004, and I started at the main hospital in 
the -- we have what’s called the psychiatric emergency clinic, which is just like an 
emergency room except for psychiatric patients.  I started out there, and then I worked as a 
clinical nurse specialist as well on the inpatient unit.  Kind of did both positions.  Since 
then I’ve moved to the outpatient clinics.  Now I’m at a place called the Aspire Center, 
which is a 40-bed rehabilitation center for veterans who have PTSD and who have 
substance abuse.  This is the best position I’ve had at the VA. [00:40:00]  It allows me to 
top at the top of my license in terms of doing education, in terms of doing trauma therapy, 
individual therapy, family therapy.  We have an interdisciplinary team who is just profound 
in terms of their dedication and commitment to the veteran population.  Our teams consists, 
of course, of psychiatrists, psychologists, clinical nurse specialist, nurse practitioners, we 
have a chaplain, we have a vocational education specialist, we have peer support 
specialists, veterans who are in kind of a liaison role to help us as staff make sure we’re 
meeting the needs of veterans.  We have a dieticians who provides special meals and things 
like that for them.  We have a substance abuse clinician who addresses their substance 
abuse issues, social workers.  When they leave here, we treat the whole person mentally, 
physically, psychologically, the whole gamut.  We have a service animal program, so 
veterans across -- and we admit veterans from across the country.  A lot of them have 
service animals, and so they can bring their animals with them as they go through 
treatment, and that’s unlike a lot of other programs that we have.  We have been challenged 
by COVID and we’ll get into that, but for the most part, anything that veteran comes in 
here needing, they can leave here having -- we help them to reunite with families.  We help 
them reintegrate and transition back into society, back into the community.  As I said, they 
come from all over, so some go back to the state where they originated from.  Some end up 
staying here in San Diego.  Some got to new places with an established new lives, but it’s 
really a program that I definitely look forward to coming to work every morning.  A typical 
day we make take them to the zoo, which sounds like, oh, that’s a lot of fun.  Well, it is fun 
if you don’t have PTSD, but if you have PTSD it can be quite intimidating and that kind of 
thing.  But just showing them that they can have as much as a normal life as possible.  Now 
you can’t reverse PTSD, because it’s a fact, but we can help teach them to live with it, so 
that it doesn’t have to predominate their lives and keep them from living what they 
consider a valuable life.  So, very rewarding.  The veteran population is very, very special.  
They’re a different breed.  They’re very appreciative of the care that they receive.  They’re 
very respectful.  But one of the challenges is knowing how to treat the veteran population.  
On a national level, we’ve had healthcare issues where they’ve tried to -- because there’s so 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
15 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
many returning vets, and I think their hearts for the most part were in the right place, but 
trying to have civilian providers treat veterans.  And that’s a special challenge.   I didn’t 
know until I started working with veterans how different it is.  Now I’m not gonna say that 
there are no civilian providers that can provide care.  I’m not saying that, but for the most 
part, if you are a civilian provider, you really, really have to understand military culture, 
you have to understand the nuances of military or combat related PTSD.  You need some 
special training in evidence based trauma therapy.  We’ve heard horror stories where our 
veterans go to the community to try to be treated and they are told just get over it, what’s 
the problem, just really not having an understanding or appreciation for what these men and 
women have gone through, and that’s really, really important.  So, as a VA employee, I’m 
always advocating that who best can take care of our vets than us.  I think that’s really an 
important thing to consider in terms of providing healthcare, because it really does make a 
difference.  It really, really does. 
 
[44:11]  AG:  Absolutely.  An excellent point.  And just to clarify, what is the title of your role in 
this setting? 
 
DC: Educationally, I have a doctorate in philosophy in nursing.  My specific title is psychiatric 
clinical nurse specialist. 
 
AG:  I see. 
 
DC: Yes. 
 
AG: Is that facing position?  You said you do education.  And is there also patient care?  Is it -- 
 
DC: Definitely patient care.  Probably 70% of what I do is direct patient care in terms of 
individual therapy, group therapy.  I do family therapy.  Trauma therapy is a treatment 
modality that we most use, and there are about five or six different evidence based trauma 
therapies that we use here to treat trauma.  A lot of our veterans had trauma before they 
even went into the military.  [00:45:00] They come from a lot of times very violent 
environments, personal environments where they witness violence or they seen it.  A lot of 
people say when people go into the military, they’re either running from something or to 
something.  A lot of the women have histories of sexual abuse.  They experience military 
sexual trauma while they are active duty.  A lot of men, believe it or not, experience 
military sexual trauma while they are active duty.  We have a lot to deal with.  And then, of 
course, the substance abuse is a way of trying to cope with and mitigate all that hurt and 
pain that they either experience as a result of being in the military or compiled it by 
experiences that they had before they even went in the military.  Yeah. 
 
AG: How long have you been a nurse in this facility? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
16 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
DC: I came to this particular facility in 2017.  I’m finishing my career here, because I enjoy it so 
much. 
 
AG:  You’re doing it. 
 
DC: So much enjoyment.  Now, don’t get me wrong, we work hard and it’s very challenging, 
but you know we really enjoy providing diverse experiences for them, and we just had 
black history month, so we had a program where the vets joined in and shared some 
historical figures that they found interesting in terms of black history.  We had a special 
meal that was soul food centered.  We toured an African American museum.  That’s 
something we’re going to -- we’re calling it embracing diversity.  Here at this facility, 
every -- whenever a new ethnicity is celebrated, we’ll have a program around it.  Like next 
is St. Patrick’s Day, so we’ll highlight those of Irish decent, and we’ll have Irish meals and 
talk about famous Irish historians and include some Irish music, maybe some Irish dance.  
Things like that.  We want to celebrate diversity and all of the cultures, because this facility 
is a microcosm of society.  We have diverse staff of different ages, of course different 
genders, different races, different cultures, different sexual orientation.  And that’s what we 
have here at the facility as well.  We want that to be a microcosm and be reflective of the 
veterans we serve and the staff that we have here.  We are very, very committed to that. 
 
[47:51]  AG:  What would you say your typical week schedule would be in this role? 
 
DC:   Usually we start off with nursing reports, so at this facility we have a whole full nursing 
staff, and so they take care of the medications and anything medical issues and things like 
that.  They also provide some brief support of therapy in terms of the mental health, if you 
have a patient who is having a tough day, or evening, or got some bad news, they’re able to 
go in and give them the support that they need until they can get to the regular psychiatric 
staff.  A typical day would start with -- and we’re open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  
We’re required to have four hours of programming at least every day.  And so, we start off 
with nursing reports, so we hear from a medical standpoint what’s going on.  And then, we 
have what we call our interdisciplinary team meeting.  So, we bring up kind of a reporting 
style issue where we bring up any issues or concerns that we may have about any of our 
residents at the time.  We talk about that as a team.  And then, we usually have what we 
call a 30-day review.  We have a red, white, and blue team, go figure, and so typically we 
about 30 patients, so there are about 10 people on a team.  Each day of the week -- three 
days out of the week, we have that team to present the residents on their team, and then we 
will have a 30-day review, so at least once every 30 days, every resident has a team 
meeting with the entire team, and they come in and we ask them what do you -- it’s a very 
supportive meeting, but they just come in and we ask them what do you think your 
accomplishments have been in the last 30 days?  What are you most proud of?  What are 
some of your challenges?  How ready do you think you are for discharge?  Is there 
anything else we can do to support you?  What are your goals for the next 30 days?  Things 
like that.  That gives us a chance to kind of have them present, and again we’re very 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
17 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
supportive in terms of helping them to see -- and sometimes they don’t even recognize.  
Sometimes they’ll say I haven’t made any [00:50:00] progress, and so we’re quick to say 
we’ve noticed this, we’ve noticed that, because they come very, very broken.  Very, very 
broken.  And sometimes they feel like this is my last stop.  This is my last chance.  A lot of 
times the families have burned out because their PTSD has been so disruptive to the family, 
to the kids.  A lot of them come in the midst of divorce.  A lot of them are alienated from 
families.  A lot of them don’t have family.  They have no one.  A lot of times they come in 
their homeless, they’ve been living in their cars, or on the street.  Some come from 
families, but it’s not unusual to have someone who really, really has hit rock bottom.  The 
substance abuse plays a big part in terms of their inability to cope.  We really, really try to 
give them hope and inspiration and let them know things can get better.  During that 30-day 
review, that’s when we get a chance to build them up, and support them, and help them to 
recognize that they are making progress.  Now we do have rules and regulations here, 
because we are running a program.  We do have pretty stringent -- it’s our obligation to 
keep this facility a safe place emotionally, and psychologically, and physically.  We do 
have rules and regulations in terms of what they are permitted to do and not permitted to 
do, but it’s a beautiful state of the art facility.  We have a gym, we have a music room, we 
have a chapel, of course the eating facilities are really nice.  Each resident has his or her 
own private room.  There’s a wing for the female veterans that are separate from the male 
veterans.  We’re very safety oriented, so we’re always looking for baseline, you know, is 
anybody getting more depressed, or more anxious, or suicidal, things like that.  We make 
sure they get their medication.  We make sure their aftercare is arranged, so that when they 
leave here, they’re not just turned loose.  They have the support that they need to transition 
to back into the community. 
 
AG:  Over the course of a typical day, how many of the patients do you interact with through the 
groups and -- 
 
DC: I interact with all of them. 
 
AG: All of them, I see. 
 
DC: Once we figure that morning interdisciplinary meeting, then we go about our day.  So, most 
of us have individual therapy sessions scheduled.  We have group therapy sessions 
scheduled.  Of course, we have our other meetings and things like that.  Sometimes we’re 
scheduled to go on outings with the veterans.  Sometimes we may need to take them up to 
the main hospital for lab work, or other appointments, or things like that.  Their schedule is 
pretty packed.  Each veterans has their own schedule that they follow each week.  Most of 
them see someone for trauma therapy after a certain point.  And the first 30 days is a lot of 
assessing, getting a baseline.  What is it that you need?  What is it that -- and they are very 
much in charge of their treatment program in terms of what it is they want to do, in terms 
of PTSD treatment.  Some prefer a more let me kind of ease into it gentle approach, 
whereas some say, hey, let’s just get right to it.  We have two tracks.  They can decide 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
18 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
which one they want to go on.  We have moral injury, which is another big part where they 
can -- because most people who have PTSD are riddled with guilt and the shame of what 
happened.  And they don’t really see themselves -- or they forget that when they were in a 
combat situation it was life or death and they had to make different decisions that they have 
to make in a noncombat situation.  So, they get out and tend to want to judge themselves by 
the tough decisions that they had to make in a combat situation.  Helping them to be 
mindful of that and to put that in the right context so they can process it, talk about what all 
that was about, how it has impacted them, and to really deal with how they blame 
themselves.  How do you take accountability for where you were and what you did and yet 
live with it.  That’s the challenge.  That’s the struggle.  Helping them to process that and 
make sense of that, especially when it doesn’t correlate with your value system outside of a 
military combat situation.  These are people who have families, who have loved ones, and 
they say, hey, I took somebody else’s life, what if somebody took my loved one’s life?  But 
again, they had to make really, really tough decisions and not question it.  When you’re in 
the military, you do as ordered, no questions asked.  And the other thing is that you don’t 
have time to grieve.  You’re not allowed to grieve and you don’t have time to grieve.  You 
lose your comrades and you’re on to the next mission.  There’s no time. [00:55:00]  And 
it’s getting better, but grieving and taking time to really feel and have that vulnerability is 
very much frowned upon.  Very frowned upon.  That’s the mindset that they have for 
many, many years as their serving, so proudly serving their country, and then they come 
home and what do you do with all that?  Well, my emotions have been frozen for the last 
10, 12, 15 years, and now you want me to come home and feel and relate and connect and 
all of that when I’ve spent these past years not doing that?  And sometimes families don’t -- 
it’s difficult for them to understand that, because they’re a different person than they went 
off to war to be.  It’s like where is my husband?  That’s not the man I married or that’s not 
the woman I married, or that’s not the mother of my children.  It’s a big, big adjustment to 
try to help them reintegrate for the families and for them as well.  A lot of it, again, is just 
us normalizing behavior, letting them have a typical life.  Helping them to trust again.  
Helping them to care about the future again.  Letting them know that there is life after 
serving in the military, and how do you rebuild and pick up the pieces of a life torn apart by 
war. 
 
AG:  I’m wondering for you what is like to be so close to this level of trauma and psychiatric 
despair and distress? 
 
DC: Very good question.  A lot of items if you are not processing yourself and taking care of 
yourself, you can get very, very burnt out.  If I can explain it, you care a lot, you’re very 
passionate about it, but you have to have a certain amount of healthy emotional distance 
and you can’t be tied to the outcome.  You give your best, you support, you help them to 
process, but at the end of the day I have to leave it here.  Otherwise, I can’t be effective.  If 
I take it home with me and I’m thinking about it constantly, again I can’t be effective.  I 
hope that they will take the recommendations of myself and the treatment team, but the 
bottom line is it’s their choice.  Now, of course, there have been -- I’m not gonna say I’ve 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
19 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
never taken it home before.  There have been people who touched me or veterans who 
we’ve lost -- because I am human, and so I have unfortunately lost veterans to suicide.  
And of course, it’s normal and human to say did I do all that I could do?  What did I miss?  
What could I have done differently?  But that’s why it’s so important to have your 
colleagues to support each other, and if you say hey, I’m really struggling with this 
particular -- this person reminds me of X,Y, and Z to be able to talk about that and process 
it and to get the support that you need and to support each other, because they can be 
triggering for us as well.  Sometimes we have a natural affinity to want to -- especially take 
care of someone because they remind us of our cousin, our brother, our son, our dad or 
whatever.  Or you may have a conflict because they remind you of -- so, just remembering 
the humanistic part of it and not ignoring it but addressing it, and again, giving your all but 
trying as best you can to maintain those healthy boundaries and not being attached to the 
outcome.  I’m gonna put it there for you, but in the final analysis, if you relapse, if you 
don’t do what’s recommended, then I have to respect that that was your choice to do it.  
Sometimes people relapse and they come back again.  It’s not uncommon for them to have 
two or three rounds here at this facility.  We understand that relapse is a part of recovery.  
We don’t judge.  We look at if you were to come back what would be different this time?  
We honestly have a conversation.  The last time you were here, we had a difficult time with 
you engaging in programming or you weren’t really compliant with the rules.  Tell us what 
will be different this time?  Sometime we say we don’t think this person is ready to come 
back.  Sometimes we say, yeah, let’s give it another shot.  Sometimes people surprise us.  
They had a horrible time the first time, but they’ll come back and say the first time I did it, 
I really didn’t get it.  I was still angry.  I wasn’t ready.  Or I did for my family member.  
This time I’m doing it for me, and you can really see the difference with their level of 
motivation when they’re doing it for themselves versus they were court ordered or they 
were doing it for to save their marriage or something like that.  Not that you can’t have 
other things that are motivating you, but it really has to be something at your core that you 
see the need to want to get help for and to change.  Yeah. [01:00:00] 
 
AG:  What would you say the hardest aspect of your job is right now? 
 
DC:  Probably seeing the people that aren’t ready for change and seeing them miss the 
opportunity to really get the help that they need.  That’s kind of sad, because you want 
more for them than sometimes they want for themselves.  And of course, when you lose 
somebody that’s really hard.  It doesn’t happen very often, but that’s the reality of the work 
that we do.  And you have to respect that; although, it’s a permanent choice to a temporary 
situation, you have to respect that their lives are their own to take.  And if someone is 
really, really intent, then there’s nothing you can do to stop them.  You can prolong it.  You 
can support them.  And that’s not to say, you know, that people don’t have a cry for help.  
We do all that we can.  We have a whole suicide coordination team that specializes in just 
that.  But in a final analysis a person’s life is their own to take.  You really wish that wasn’t 
their choice, but that’s the hardest part knowing that that is a part of some of the work that 
we do. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
20 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
[1:01:29]  AG:  I know you mentioned that you enjoy working in a multidisciplinary team. 
 
DC: Yes. 
 
AG: Any drawback to having the coordination or having the multidisciplinary approach? 
 
DC: Well, we’re pretty good at -- because whether you’re an advanced practice nurse, a social 
worker, a clinical nurse specialist, a psychologist, we call do the same thing when we get 
behind closed doors in terms of treatment.  So, what a social worker does is not gonna be 
very different from what I do when it comes to therapy and that kind of thing.  Sometimes 
we don’t always agree on what should happen as a result of a situation, and that’s okay, 
because you have a lot -- we try to have a lot of different perspectives.  Say someone -- I’m 
trying to give an example.  Let’s say someone misses curfew, okay, so there may be some 
people who are more rules oriented, saying hey, they missed curfew.  This is the third time 
they’ve missed it this month.  You know, we should have corrective action.  Their passes 
should be revoked, point blank period.  Well, you may have another staff that says well, 
yeah, he missed curfew, but he was at home, his wife is really ill, she’s really having a hard 
time with him not being there and I think we need to kind of take that into consideration, 
okay?  And then, somebody else may have another opinion.  So, we talk about those kinds 
of things as a team and then try to have a consensus based on what is our mission, have we 
dealt with this before, is there a precedent, are we being too lax, are we being too rigid?  
Those kinds of things.  And your argument doesn’t always win, so to speak, so you have to 
be flexible and not take it personally and just respect the decision of the team and give each 
other the benefit of the doubt that as a unit we’re trying to make the best decision while still 
trying to maintain the integrity of the program but not be so rigid that we’re not taking into 
consideration the humanistic part of it.  Does that makes sense? 
 
AG: Mm-hmm. 
 
DC: (inaudible - 01:03:41) sometimes have as a team. 
 
[1:03:43]  AG:  Absolutely.  In your role, do you supervise any other healthcare workers at the 
moment? 
 
DC:  Not officially.  Not in a managerial role, but I do have influence and I do a lot of 
consultations.  If someone is having issues or maybe even a problem with their 
employment in some shape, form, or fashion, I may be asked by my immediate supervisor 
to have a consultation with them and see if we can do some problem solving and that kind 
of thing, but I don’t manage anyone, and I like it that way.  I do have administrative duties 
that I do, and I enjoy that as well.  I like administration.  I wouldn’t want to do it -- and 
that’s another thing, usually nurses with a PhD are doing teaching full-time or 
administration or management.  Doesn’t interest me at all.  I mean, I don’t mind doing 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
21 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
some, but I’m one of the few PhD’s that still enjoys providing direct patient care.  And I 
think we need nurses at this level still providing patient care.  Nothing against those that 
want to manage, but that’s not my forte.  That’s my oxygen.  I have to have that patient 
contact.  I do some administration work.  For example, [01:05:00] we are required to 
follow up with veterans who have discharged.  We have to make at least two points of 
contact in the first month that they are discharged.  Three if they have a history of suicidal 
thoughts.  I call them and check on them to see are things going according to your 
discharge plan?  Are you having any issues?  Are you still taking your meds?  Are you still 
clean and sober?  Just want to check on you and see how you’re doing.  We have a lot of 
work groups that we formulate based on -- for example, I’m over the communication work 
group where we try to improve communication among staff.  We may have a safety work 
group.  We see an issues where are our bedroom safe?  Are there hazards?  We come up 
with different work groups based on what’s coming out of our staff meetings when we have 
staff retreats.  What are some of the issues that we have?  I’m also over our creating a 
mission statement for this -- this facility is only about 5 years old, so it’s still pretty new.  
Coming up with a mission statement and branding.  Who do we want to be seen as in the 
community?  What is our brand?  How can we expand our brand?  Who are we and how do 
we have a program that’s consist with how we want to be seen in the community?  Those 
are some of the administrative pieces that are interesting to follow up on. 
 
AG: Absolutely.  Shifting gears just a little bit, because I’m looking at the time. 
 
DC: Yeah, sure. 
 
[01:06:28]  AG:  Can we talk a little bit about how the COVID-19 pandemic influence your 
(inaudible - 01:06:34)? 
 
DC:  Yes, yes, yes. Before COVID, our program was pretty open and accessible and pretty 
comprehensive.  It began with us having to restrict the comings and goings of residents, 
which was a whole new ballgame.  In fact, at one point, when we first got -- because we 
don’t just do it as a facility, we have to follow the mandates of the federal government and 
the specific VISN in which we fall.  Leadership comes from the top in terms of what we 
can and cannot do.  Initially, when COVID happened, we even spoke with our residents, 
because we had a full house at that time, and said hey, there’s gonna be some really 
significant changes in terms of your ability to go on pass, your ability to see family, for 
them to be able to come here.  It’s gonna be a whole new world.  We offered them the 
opportunity, without penalty, if you think that’s something that’s gonna be too challenging 
for you and too disruptive where you can’t see your family, then we’re gonna invite you to 
discharge at this time and you can come back -- and of course, we didn’t know how long it 
was gonna last, but giving them the opportunity to come back when we aren’t having to be 
so restrictive in terms of COVID.  But yes, it has certainly changed the way we deliver 
care.  Our access to different activities and things like that.  We have people coming in and 
doing music, and art, and all kinds of things, and so we had to shut that down.  We can’t 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
22 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
have them to see families.  Of course, if there’s an emergency -- let’s say they have a death 
in the family and they have to fly to another state, when they come back they have to be 
quarantined for two weeks.  We are getting vaccinations for those that want it, so that’s a 
new thing.  I’d say 70% of our staff are working from home instead of being here, and so 
rather than having face to face groups, face to face therapy, it’s being doing done through 
Zoom.  We call it Microsoft Teams, but because Zoom isn’t confidential for us.  But we’re 
having to provide therapy over telecommuting, that kind of thing.  They’re kind of getting 
used to it now, but at first they were like, oh, no way, I am not doing that.  It’s really, really 
changed the way we deliver care.  Yeah. 
 
AG:  Do you have a sense of how the pandemic may have affected the VA system wide? 
 
DC:  Yes.  Of course, we were in with the rest of the country where we were trying to decipher 
accurate information, true information, trying to minimize the hysterics, employees 
especially with nursing I like to speak to our concern about personal protective gear and 
equipment.  That was a biggie.  Are we being safe?  Are we being protected?  The union 
very much got involved with making sure nurses have what they need in terms of 
protective gear.  Do we have to get the vaccine?  Should we get the vaccine?  Is it offered 
to us?  All of those nuisances have come into play. [01:10:00]  Being first line workers, 
very many of us were at risk, working long hours, taking care of patients with COVID, 
short staffed.  All of the ills that were prevalent in society were also happening here at the 
VA, so really trying to make sure that -- and of course, nurses are always concerned about 
patient safety.  We’ve gone from reusing masks to not reusing masks and who is in a room 
with whom.  Nurses had to advocate for the safety of our patients and or ourselves, because 
if we’re not safe and we’re not healthy, we’re not gonna be able to take care of our patients.  
Those kinds of things -- we were in turmoil for quite a while.  I think things are looking 
better now, but there’s still a lot that’s unknown.  I think staffing has gotten better.  We’re 
starting to talk about bringing staff who are working from home back into the facilities and 
things like that.  Just kind of trying to get back to normal as much as possible.  We have to 
wear masks, of course, around here except when you are eating or in your own private 
office.  We’ve been very fortunate at my particular facility.  We have not had one incident 
of a veteran getting COVID, so we’re very proud of that fact.  We’ve been very diligent 
about safety and precautions and things like that.  Happy to say that.  But even with our 
activities, the activities that we participate in or aren’t allowed to participate in because we 
have to social distance.  We used to have two or three vans that we would load everybody 
up in and go.  We can’t do that.  Just a lot of things that have really impacted our delivery 
of care. 
 
AG:  And then, similarly, do you have from your sort of position of expertise, a sense of how 
the COVID-19 pandemic has influenced or impacted healthcare across the country or 
perhaps people, vulnerable populations around the country? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
23 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
DC:  Yes, I can definitely speak to the African American population.  There has been a lot of 
hesitancy and mistrust in terms of our willingness to get the vaccine, and this is based on 
the historical underpinnings of things like the Tuskegee experiments, the HeLa cells with -- 
I’m drawing a blank on her name right now, but they use her cells for research. 
 
AG:  Is that Henrietta Lacks. 
 
DC:   Yes, Henrietta Lacks.  That’s what I was trying to think of.  Thank you very much. 
 
AG:  Yes. 
 
DC: There is still a lot of disparity in terms of pain management.  A lot of times, minorities are 
seen as med seeking.  They’re not as easily to get medicated for pain or drug seeking.  At 
one time it was even taught that we don’t experience the same level of pain.  Believe it or 
not, people are still a lot of times of the belief that we have a higher pain tolerance than 
others.  Even in the diagnosis, we saw a lot of African Americans who weren’t getting the 
same access to treatment when it comes to COVID.  I can’t remember her name, but there 
was a physician who had COVID, and her symptoms were minimized.  She was treated 
very rudely.  And she ended up losing her life.  We definitely see cultural differences.  
They have made -- and even me, as a nurse, I was very, very hesitant at first to get the 
vaccine.  I’m in the midst of it now.  I got my first dose.  But it took a lot of convincing.  
And I’m a very educated medical professional and it took a lot of convincing, a lot of 
research on my part for me to say okay, I’ll go ahead and do it, because there was a lot of 
mistrust about the information, a lot of conflicting information that came out.  I have a 
mother who is a senior -- and I don’t judge anybody, whether they do or don’t.  I think it’s 
a very personal decision based on a lot of different factors.  Your age, if you’re in 
childbearing years, if you have children, if you have elderly people, your experience with 
the healthcare system, your state of health.  There’s a lot of if, ands, or buts.  I don’t judge 
anybody if they decide to or decide not to get the vaccine.  It’s a very, very personal 
decision.  For the most part, I think African Americans are still very, very [01:15:00] 
hesitant to get the vaccine.  I think they feel like a lot is not known.  Again, there is mistrust 
in the medical profession.  I know that there was a conscientious effort, which felt a little 
bit manipulative to have a lot of African American doctors and other providers say, see, 
I’m getting it, it’s safe.  That didn’t really convince me.  There was other research that I did 
that convinced me, but yeah, I think that’s a real phenomenon that there is mistrust on our 
part about getting the vaccine.  There are still people who believe it’s planned.  They called 
it a plandemic.  There’s still a lot of people who aren’t quite convinced, so we’ll see.  My 
concerns was with the long term effects, but after doing more research I found out that I 
didn’t have to worry about that, I’ll just put it that way, based on the information that I 
read.  And I’m not in childbearing years, so I wasn’t concerned about that.  Did that answer 
your question? 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
24 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
[1:16:06] AG:  Absolutely.  Thank you.  And that’s very reassuring information for me, so thank 
you.  So, last question in this, are there any lessons from the previous 10-12 months that 
you’re taking with you or that you’d like to share about the pandemic experience directly 
working with patients in this capacity? 
 
DC: Yes, I think that education is key.  I think that we have to have education from reliable 
sources.  It’s all about trust.  It’s about trust and having that relationship with care 
providers, making sure that the research is done.  And if something is -- if there’s a mistake 
somewhere, own up to it, you know, because that builds trust.  Hey, we were wrong about 
this, then say that.  Don’t try to cover it up, or manipulate it, or minimize it, or any of that.  
so, I think we have to respect that this is still new territory in a lot of ways.  There’s a lot 
we know, but I think there’s still a lot that we don’t know.  What I’ve learned is to do my 
own research, respect the decision of others, consider the source, because everybody has an 
opinion and everybody thinks they know, but try to get your information from a reliable 
source.  And I think time and consistency is a way that we can address this pandemic.  And 
I don’t know if things will ever get back to how they were before.  I had such a rigorous 
social life before this, meetings, and organizations, and things like that.  And I don’t know 
if we’ll ever -- in some ways we’ve found hey, it’s kind of convenient and less expensive to 
have this convention over Zoom rather than the expense of travel and so on and so forth.  I 
don’t know if things will ever kind of get back to quote unquote life as we knew it, and we 
have to be a place to accept that, accept the change.  We’ve lost so many people.  My heart 
goes out to people who have lost people who didn’t get to say the traditional goodbye and 
things like that.  Not just this nation, but this world is still in need of a lot of healing to be 
able to deal with the aftermath of the pandemic.  So, I hope that we will all be patient with 
each other and be conscientious about the decision we make, the information that we share, 
to remember the humanistic part of it, to respect those that have lost people, and to really 
focus on the disparities that exist culturally, economically.  People having access to 
healthcare -- I mean, this has been a domino effect.  Look at the people whose lives have 
been disrupted by employment issues and housing issues. A lot of social ills have come 
forth as a result of the pandemic, so we as a world, as a global nation, we have a lot of 
healing to do, a lot of repair work to do and it’s not gonna happen overnight.  I’m just 
hoping we can remember the humanistic part and everyone do their part individually and 
collectively to try to get us back to as close to where we were before.  Yes. 
 
AG: Well said.  Thank you so much.  This has been so informative.  I just have a couple broad 
reflecting questions to close us out, if that’s okay. 
 
DC: Yes, absolutely. 
 
AG: Wonderful.  How would you -- 
 
DC: What am I gonna talk about for a whole hour?  Look at the time. 
 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
25 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
AG: [1:19:52] How would you describe your role in patient care, and do you think that has 
changed over your career? 
 
DC: Good question.  Definitely as an advocate. [01:20:00]  I see myself as an advocate.  All 
nurse are advocates for our patients.  We have to be the voice for those who don’t have a 
voice.  Particularly in mental health, because if you think about other diagnosis, like we can 
have a spokesperson or a celebrity to talk about breast cancer.  We can have someone to 
talk about HIV.  We can have someone to talk about these other -- kidney disease, heart 
attacks, heart health, things like that.  But it’s difficult, because there’s still so much stigma 
attached to mental health.  And we’re getting better.  There are some celebrities that have 
come forth and talked about the diagnosis that they have, depression, and bipolar disorder, 
and things that like, but we can’t always find someone to adequately speak for those with 
mental health issues.  And then, those who are chronically mental ill cannot speak for 
themselves, because they are at a level where they can’t.  Whereas if I’m a celebrity and I 
have had kidney disease, I can speak for myself, but if I’ve had schizophrenia then maybe 
I’m not so able to do that.  I think it’s important for us to be the voice for those that don’t 
have voice.  I think it’s important for nurses to continue to get educated, to continue their 
education, so that you can be at the top of your game in terms of research, in terms of 
medication, in terms of your clinical practice.  I think it’s important for us to have 
community involvement, so that we can implement changes and help organization.  I want 
to give the example of I’ve been approached by Jewish Family Services here in San Diego.  
They of course help all people, and then they had someone who said, hey, we’re helping 
people, but we need to address those with mental illness.  They came up with a whole 
committee that addresses the mental health needs of the population they’re serving.  Then 
somebody took it a step further and said, what about minority mental health?  They’ve 
asked me to help to identify some of the disparities in treatment, so they can specialize  in 
meeting the needs of that community.  By having community involvement, you can really 
impact a lot of the things that nurses really care about.  I think it’s important to get active 
with nursing organizations about your specialty or just in general.  I’m a strong advocate of 
the union and I believe -- I’m not saying unions are the end all and be all, but they certainly 
make a difference in terms of patient care, and safety, and all the important things that 
nurses really care about.  I think it’s also important that nurses show up in different facets 
in terms of we need nurses at the bedside.  We need nurses in management.  We need 
nurses in administration.  We need nurses in legislation making policy changes and things 
like that.  We need nurses at all levels of involvement.  I don’t know if you know, but 
nurses are the most trusted profession out of all professions.  Everybody loves and trusts a 
nurse.  That can go a long way in terms of really having a positive impact on society.  
Those are some of the things I would say that we need to make sure we’re doing, being 
involved, being an advocate, not being afraid to speak up, not being afraid to represent.  
Make sure everybody is represented, those that don’t have a voice, those are struggling 
with gender identity, sexual orientation.  That’s another population of people that we need 
to speak up for and make sure that they’re being treated fairly.  Many cultural populations, 
women, minority women.  There’s so many health care issues that need to be address.  
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
26 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
Even environmental issues, fresh water, clean -- I’m from Flint where that whole water 
crisis took place, so looking at things from an environmental standpoint.  That’s the 
heartbeat of nursing is to really have a holistic approach to care in a lot of different settings 
with a lot of different populations and with a lot of different environments. 
 
[1:24:22]  AG:  When you think back over your career, is there anyone that acted as a 
professional mentor or influence you, or are there multiple people, perhaps? 
 
DC:  Multiple people that have supported me and encouraged me.  My village.  I have a village 
of people, personal, professional, my coworkers, my colleagues, students that I have 
inspired that have inspired me along the way, patients who I’ve made a difference in their 
lives who I’ve learned from.  Yeah, just lots of different opportunities that have come my 
way.  I’m really [01:25:00] pleased with the education preparation that I’ve had.  Even 
working in  my church, even from a spiritual standpoint.  My pastor (inaudible - 01:25:10) 
to have a mental health support group at my church for people who are struggling with -- 
they don’t have to have a diagnosis, but stress, and trying to cope, and integrating that 
spiritual aspect with mental health.  I love the work that I do.  I’m inspired by so many 
things and so many people, and I stand on the shoulders of those that have come before me, 
and I hope that I’m doing a good job in fulfilling my calling and being of service to all 
mankind. 
 
AG: Wonderful.  One last question, which is just has the VA changed over the course of your 
career working there or how has it changed if so? 
 
DC: Well, we are a bureaucratic institution, and so things move very slowly.  Things moved 
very meticulously.  There are a lot of politics involved in things, and I think you just have 
to figure out a way to work within the system.  It exists.  It has its pros.  It has its cons.  But 
it is what it is, and I think -- I haven’t seen any real big changes.  Maybe things like 
including diversity, I’ve seen that.  In terms of meeting the needs from veterans from 
different standpoints, I’ve seen that, which is a positive change.  I think that addressing 
more social ills, like we have people that deal with the homeless population, whereas 
maybe that wasn’t done many years ago.  Military sexual trauma that we deal with, that’s 
something that’s new.  So, I do think that we do try to meet the social needs as they change.  
Definitely dealing with returning combat veterans, trying to make sure they’re taken care 
of.  And of course, there are times and periods where we haven’t really had to deal with 
that since the Vietnam war.  So, trying to address those kinds of needs, I do think the VA is 
sensitive to and trying to do a good job in terms of meeting those types of needs for the 
veteran population.  But overall, I still think it’s a great institution.  It’s not perfect, but I 
have enjoyed my career with the VA.  I plan to finish my career here at the VA.  It’s been a 
very rewarding experience.  I’m very proud to serve those who have served, and so it’s 
been a good experience.  I’ve really enjoyed it.  When I first was gonna come to the VA, 
somebody said oh, it’s a bunch of old men with stinky feet, and they couldn’t have been 
more wrong.  It is not like that at all.   
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
27 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
 
[1:28:18]  One last thing that I want to mention that is -- and you can put this wherever you 
want, one of things that I want to mention that is a really big part of my life is I’m a proud 
member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc, and that is the first black sorority founded at 
Howard University in 1908.  We have about 300,000 members worldwide, and about 
70,000 members that are active.  You can become a member of the organization at the 
undergraduate level or at the graduate level, but these are all college educated women, and 
we are all dedicated to service to all mankind.  I’m sure you’ve heard Vice President 
Kamala Harris is a proud member.  I mentioned that, because that is one of the places 
where I extend my service to the community through my sorority, and again engaging in all 
types of -- you know, we all come from different professional backgrounds, but we usually 
find a way to use our professional background to help the organization.  Whether you’re in 
law, or healthcare, physician, computer science, all of that we use to better the 
organization.  So, for me, I use my nursing background and my experience in mental health 
whenever possible to serve the community in that capacity, be it a healthcare, be it doing 
mental health screenings, we are concerned with the black family, supporting the economic 
strength of the black community.  And we help all people, but particularly in our own 
communities [01:30:00], supporting black business.  Things like that.  It’s a very, very 
integral part of my life, so I just wanted to mention that’s a very big part of me in terms of 
how I connect to other African American women and really find an organization to make a 
difference in working through.  I just wanted to make sure I put that in there. 
 
[1:30:23]  AG:  Thank you.  I’m so glad you added that.  Is there anything else you’d like to add 
before we conclude? 
 
DC: I think I pretty much covered everything.  I really enjoyed this interview.  I’m really happy 
that I’m living at the time that I’m living in.  At 57, I’m old enough to appreciate a lot of 
wonderful things that have happened in society, old enough to appreciate it, but not too old 
not be able to partake in.  Some of the things that I think about is seeing the advancement 
of women in this society, being able to witness and really appreciate the first African 
American president, historical, having the first female vice president.  I’m proud of that as 
a woman.  Even the tough things, I’m able to say hey, 9/11, I know what that was about.  It 
was a tragedy, but historically speaking I can appreciate what that whole things was about, 
the war that we’re in, the aftermath of the war that we’re in, the pandemic, getting equal 
rights, marital rights, for people of different -- I was able to witness all that, so I think I’m 
in a really sweet spot historically to be able to experience a lot of these things that will go 
down in history, and I can say, hey, I was there, I remember.  I remember when such and 
such happened.  Even the Black Lives Matter movement, I remember how that came into 
being and what that was about.  All of these cultured nuisances are very, very important, so 
I’ll be able to share really in an informative and experiential way the things that I’ve gone 
through in my lifetime.  Yeah. 
 
AG: Absolutely.  That’s a wonderful point. 
Library of Congress Archie Green Folklife Fellowship  
2020012, Nursing America's Veterans 
 
28 
2020012 Nursing America’s Veterans 
 
DC: 1963 was a very good year. 
 
AG: It was a good year indeed.  Thank you so much for your time, Dr. Cook. 
 
DC: Yes, I really enjoyed it. 
 
AG: Me too.  Thank you so much. 
 
DC:  Yes. 
 
[1:32:32] End of recording