NEW BEDFORD FISHING HERITAGE CENTER 
Date of Interview: 1/4/17 
DiCienzo, Trish ~ Oral History Interview 
Madeleine Hall-Arber 
Patricia M. DiCienzo. Interview by Madeleine-Hall Arber. Workers on the New Bedford 
Waterfront. New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center. January 4, 2017. 
This oral history was produced in 2017 as part of the Workers on the Waterfront Oral History 
Project conducted by New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center with funding from an Archie Green 
Fellowship provided by the Library of Congress. 
New Bedford Fishing Heritage Center 
38 Bethel Street 
P.O. Box 2052 
New Bedford, MA 02741-2052 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
1 
Background 
Name of person interviewed: Patricia (Trish) M. DiCienzo (TD) 
Facts about this person: 
Age: 54 
Sex: Female 
Occupation: Manager at Maritime Terminal 
Residence: Lakeville 
Ethnic background: Italian 
Interviewer: Madeleine Hall-Arber [MHA] 
Transcriber: Amanda Peabody [AP] 
Interview location: New Bedford 
Date of interview: January 4, 2017 
Key Words 
Ground fish, swordfish, scallops, lobsters, processing, pallets, fish blocks, truck loading, international 
transporting, clementines, first woman manager of the warehouse 
Abstract 
Trish DiCienzo was bom in Brockton, Massachusetts in the year 1963, the oldest of four kids. She 
married at age 18 and moved out to Boston for 22 years then moved to West Roxbury, Massachusetts 
where she worked in the police department. Later, she moved to Lakeville so she could work at a 
processing plant in New Bedford. Shortly afterward she was asked to transfer to Maritime Terminal 
where she works today. In this interview she describes the responsibilities she has as a manager and 
elaborates on certain policies regarding transporting goods and storing them as well as the many 
challenges that come with managing a unionized company. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
Index 
[00:00] Tape intro; warehouse manager at Maritime Terminal; got into fishing industry through 
agency in Fairhaven; switching over to import/export; switching over from scallop processing 
plant to Maritime; run down of job description; transporting goods and rails; shipment to and 
from Canada and Morocco; goods such as clementines and ground fish. 
[5:33] Learning by doing; holding and transporting goods; freezers; checkers; inventory; 
working closely with customers; Main Terminal; bulk product; fish blocks. 
[9:20] West Terminal; loading trucks and sending them out; unloading trucks; hierarchy of the 
way transporting is handled; do’s and don’ts; 200 customers. 
[14:53] Using cranes or forklifts to unload; US customs; Canadian and US bonds; pallets; 
Seattle. 
[19:53] CSX and Union Pacific; lobster and scallops; Boston airlines; losing cargo; monitoring 
transports; working with numbers and quantitative reasoning; being a female in the industry and 
opinions on women in the field. 
[25:39] Continued discussion on being a female in the industry; contract negotiations; 
background on when and where she was bom; from Brockton; background on family and 
marriage; early memories of New Bedford. 
[30:20] Work ethic; drivers; temporary employees and temp agency; training. 
[34:31] Ethnicity of employees and bilingualism; changes regarding technology; working closely 
with USDC and the FDA; transporting overseas; stamps and certificates. 
[40:02] Policies and regulations; hardest part about the job; grievance procedure; cons about 
temp workers; state pier; managing schedules for employees; best part about the job; 
unpredictability of employee availability. 
[46:04] Weekend rotations; work hours; best part about the job is being busy often; Mr. 
Wechsler. 
[50:06] Custom brokers; AES; Terminal facility, Bridge facility, Delaware, and Hartford 
Connecticut; mentoring replacement; maintaining good presentation with delivery tmcks. 
[55:55] More on “housekeeping”; taking temperatures; Ocean Spray; clementines. 
[1:00:00] Quality control and inspections; TWIC cards; TSA; preconceived notions about union 
shop. 
[1:05:03] Storing versus producing; blast freezers; final comments. 
[1:08:39] End of recording 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
3 
[0:00] 
Madeline Hall-Arber: I have a sort of formal introduction. This is an interview for the New 
Bedford Fishing Heritage Center funded by the Archie Green Fellowship from the Library of 
Congress. As part of this project we're interviewing shore side workers in the New Bedford/ 
Fairhaven Fishing Industry to record their stories, document their skills and knowledge, and 
better understand their important role in the fishing industry. The recording transcript will 
become part of the permanent collection at the Library of Congress. I'm Madeleine Hall-Arber 
and today I'm speaking with Trisha DiCienzo? Is that? 
Trish DiCienzo: 
MHA: DiCienzo. And it is now about 1:35. So, thank you for agree to do this. So please 
introduce yourself 
TD: My name is Trisha DiCienzo and I am currently employed as the warehouse manager at 
Maritime Terminal, main terminal. And I've been at this for about 4 or 5 years here as the 
manager. 
MHA: How did you end up here? 
TD: Okay, well I'll be as brief as possible but I ended up here— I worked in the Police 
Department in Boston, Massachusetts for many, many years and due to the illness of my 
daughter I wanted to have a little bit of a change in career. I ended up moving out to Lakeville, 
buying a house and thought I'd give my hand at a different career, so I came out to New Bedford 
and I was like “hmmm, how do I break into this industry here?” I don't really know much about 
it and I don't really know where to go to get work, so I ended up going to an agency, just a 
regular agency that was in Fall River and they placed me at a seafood business that’s now out of 
business, but it was here for many years in New Bedford and Fairhaven— MacLean’s Seafood. 
So I worked there in the office— the shipping office and they took in a lot of ground fish and they 
were very big on swordfish. So I got a little bit knowledgeable about shipping and receiving and 
then I did a little bit of the accounts receivable there and then they ended up going bankrupt. So 
it was back into the workforce and I ended up interviewing for a job... at a scallop processing 
facility located in New Bedford and I started there working actually for the president. I was his 
assistant. As I got more involved in the business, they asked me if I wanted to go work in the 
import and export aspect of it so we changed over to the plant side, moved my desk upstairs and 
got very knowledgeable in importing and exporting. So what I had to do was file all the 
paperwork with customs, interpret the banking letters of credit, work with USDC and FDA, get 
the certificates to move product, did the bookings with the ocean freight and was very successful 
with that for many years and then after about seven years I got a call from my friend over here at 
Maritime and he said, “would you be interested in changing over? We'd really like to have you 
over here.” So I came here and now I not only run the warehouse, we also have the cold storage 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
4 
facility here. I also do the ships at the State Pier. So we take in the clementines from Morocco, 
they come in on the ship, they come off on a crane through the Longshoreman's Association and 
then our guys bring them in on fork lifts and we ship them out either to Canada or across the US. 
If they go to Canada, they're bonded and we also take in ships sometimes here at Maritime. If 
not, we truck them here and we store them and we ship them out. We also do— we have a rail 
siding that runs across the side of our building. So we take in rail cars and each rail car either 
inbound or outbound holds about 160,000 pounds of fish at about 56 pallets per rail car. So we 
offload rails cars probably 70-100 a year. And then we also have our loading docks which we 
take in... we do bulk here, so we take in cranberries from various, mainly from Ocean Spray. 
Thaf s seasonal and we store them, we freeze them and then we ship them out after they're 
frozen. We also take in a lot of ground fish thaf s usually frozen and blocked. We store that here 
and we also do a lot, we do some bait. We also store— we changed two of our— we have about 4 
rooms here and we change two of them into coolers and we usually store clementines seasonally 
which is from October until probably March or April. So that's pretty much what we do. There's 
a lot more involved but— 
[5:33] MHA: So how did you learn all of this? 
TD: I just picked it up. Learn by doing. I started out on the importing and exporting I was like, 
God I don't really know if I can do this and then it was really just paying attention to what you 
read and understanding manufacturing. And it doesn't matter whether you're manufacturing 
working with nuts and bolts, fish, whatever the commodity is, you just have to understand that 
everything kind of runs the same. You have a shipping area, you have your inventory that you 
have to be responsible for. When you're in the transportation I booked— I did the transportation 
at the other company I worked for and I deal with transportation here that everything that comes 
in or leaves your facility has to be accounted for and everything has to go on a bill of lading 
which has to be signed by the driver or by me, so that we can account for everything. So if s 
really— as long as you account for what comes in and what goes out and you organize it in such 
as way that— by your inventory that you know where it is and you can make it accessible to you 
when you need to ship it or whatever it’s really fine. 
MHA: So you're kind of like an intermediary? You don't have to find where you sell the 
clementines or the fish? 
TD: Right. 
MHA: You're servicing the transportation. And the holding of them. 
TD: Yes, the holding and the transportation. 
MHA: Fascinating. 
TD: There's a lot of moving parts here. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
5 
MHA: Yeah. 
TD: We have— my crew here— this is a union shop. 
MHA: Okay. 
TD: So what that means is we have 10 or 11,1 think it's 11 list guys that go by seniority and then 
we also hire temporary employees that work alongside with the union and we need them usually 
during the ship season. That's generally the time during the cranberry season. That's when we'll 
really hire the temporary help. But then what they do every single day, their job is to, we have 
two checkers that work the front doors and then the rest of the guys work the freezers. They're 
called operators. So the checkers are like the second set of eyes. They offload trucks. They verify 
the counts. The operator puts the stuff away. When we get an order for the product to go back 
out, the operators will pull it out of the freezer and the checkers will double check the accounts 
before it gets on the truck and then if there's any issues, thaf s when they call me in. I make sure 
that the inventory matches, I work very closely with the customers to make sure that their— all 
they need to service to any problems that they have— they call me. A lot of times they call me 
early or daily at a time and say “I have a truck coming in. I'm on a time crunch, can you see if 
you can have my product ready or could you help me out? I know it's late in the day but I really 
need to get an order out here.” So, we work very closely with our customers. 
MHA: Now are the truckers working for you or are they working for the other companies? 
TD: They're working for the other companies. For example, I think we have— don't hold me to 
this but say we have 200 customers; main facility is the facility where we're talking about right 
now. Main Terminal, we generally do bulk product which is the cranberry bins, block fish, the 
clementines, so we do— we take in the product that is not ready to go directly to a consumer. 
MHA: I see. 
[9:20] TD: Across the street we have West Terminal. West Terminal has finished goods those are 
goods already ready to be shipped directly to a customer. And Bridge Terminal is the facility 
where they free— they actually freeze— they're the first line where it comes off say a ship and, for 
example, Norpel. They'll go in and they'll block freeze their product and then they'll take it from 
there and then they'll produce it and do whatever they're going to do before it ends up there. Or it 
ends up here for storage. A lot of customers will freeze at Bridge Terminal and Bridge Terminal 
generally does the freezing but they don't— 
[Side conversation with delivery person] 
MHA: So you have to give the truckers directions. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
6 
TD: All the time, that's why we have the sign over there across the street— directions to across 
the street. Yeah so it's very— and right now it's a good time for an interview because this just 
happens to be our really quiet week. It's the calm before the storm because we have 3 ships that 
are on their way. One of them will be here on Friday, so I'm not quite sure, depending on when 
the owners of the produce want to offload. 
MHA: Are these the clementines? 
TD: Yes. We could conceivably work all weekend if contractually everybody gets together. If 
they're really anxious to get the fruit out then we'll work the weekend. If not then we'll start on 
Monday. And ifll be a mecca of noise and people and 50-60 trucks in my parking lot here, that 
we'll check here. We do all the checking in of all the trucks at Main Terminal. So then we send 
them off either to the pier or they'll stay here and depending on where the fruit is. 
MHA: Now I'm just curious, since you're a Union shop is there any issue with trucks coming in 
that aren't union? 
TD: Well if s not a problem— it has nothing to do with the truck. When if s a union shop it has to 
do with what the individual does and what civilians— I call them— can and cannot do on the 
dock. For example, if a truck backs in and they have generally paper supplies. For example, say 
if I order something; I can't let the person that's bringing the supplies in take the boxes off the 
truck. I would have to get a checker to check it, to take it off and check it. If a driver comes in, 
he's not allowed to use any of the equipment. A lot of places like a preferred freezer, they want 
you to unload your product, count it, take it off your truck, and put it on your truck. We have the 
union— they have like a hierarchy of the way they do things. And they also— we can't have 
anybody— we have special rules by a contract of who can handle fruit and where they can do 
that, like they're not supposed to go in and take apart pallets and count like the owners of the 
fruit. They have certain criteria they have to follow to do that. Also as far as breaks and lunches, 
say if we take a break at 10 o'clock and a lunch at 12 o'clock and then and afternoon at 2 o'clock, 
by the contract, if any temporary workers work during a union person's break then the union guy 
will get paid for it. So we have to be very, very careful— it also applies to overtime. So, for 
example, if there's— we have to go by a list. Across the street, if they're having overtime then we 
have to go by the seniority list that involves these two buildings. So if West Terminal has 
overtime he'll call me and say I have overtime this evening can you call in the list? I'll go to the 
top of the list and we have to exhaust the list. So if they need two guys, the first two guys I'll go 
to, if they accept then I fill the position over there. Same with me, if I need overtime I'll tell him I 
need four guys, he'll start at the top of the list— I have the— pretty much I have the top guy for 
seniority he's always at the top so if he accepts the overtime which normally he would, then I 
would just grab two or three more guys right in order and then we skip whoever doesn't want to 
work. And then we also have a weekend rotation. Same thing. 
[Side conversation with someone with a broken foot.] 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
7 
MHA: So you're saying, Canada is... 
[14:37] TD: In Canada, in order to ship fruit, like for example, when we take the ships and how— 
what we do is, we offload, the longshoreman use a crane and they offload from the top of the 
ship and they drop the pallets down, our forklift drivers will take it into the state pier and we'll 
organize it by the grower, by who owns it, the size and then what happens is we have— if if s US 
fruit and Canadian fruit that own the product, the US trucks — if s primarily the same check-in 
however, the Canadian fruit has to go in bond. So it can't touch US soil so it has to go— it gets 
loaded onto the truck. Canadian drivers have to have custom paperwork through US Customs 
and Border. They have to seal the truck with the seal and then they give them the paper work so 
it goes in bond from here directly to the border. Then they'll cancel their bond on the US side and 
do an entry into Canada. 
MHA: Wow. Complicated. 
TD: Complicated. 
[Interview Interrupted -comment about down at the wharf, they put US and Canadian fruit in the 
same building—but Trish responded, “I don’t do that.” They have to have so many feet in 
between, they can’t house US and Canada... 25 feet, whatever it is, it’s because of a fungus that 
can destroy a citrus crop. Then directions.] 
MHA: Okay, so I kind of lost track of where we were. One question that I did have, you 
mentioned sometimes that you have the railroad and sometimes fish— I'm assuming if s the 
frozen blocks. 
TD: It is, frozen blocks yes. So we have— they fit like I said, they fit about 160,000 pounds so 
what happens is we— they're all on pallets, the blocks, so normally we put... 56 pallets fit in 
there with 52 blocks. If s like 2,112 blocks, I think fit in there. And then we seal the doors and 
the train master comes and it goes to Seattle, Washington. 
MHA: Wow really? 
TD: So it goes to— 
MHA: I thought they had enough fish out there? 
TD: No, we send out to Seattle and Seattle sends into us. 
MHA: But thaf s so funny because if s like the traffic. 
[19:53] TD: I know I know. And thafs— actually, the... rail... CSX and Union Pacific, they offer 
wonderful service for frozen product, going out to Seattle or— different places but, the industry 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
8 
really hasn't bought into that yet because the schedule isn't 100% where they need it to be and 
they're trying to use that as an alternative to make it cheaper for seafood processes to ship 
seafood. So they're very leery about it. 
MHA: Thaf s interesting because I know a lot of product is flown now out of Logan. 
TD: Well, yeah, thaf s primarily lobster and scallops. The only problem with that is that, yeah 
normally they, every day they have the trucks, they have— all the companies here that have 
lobster or scallops they all send trucks into Boston to the airlines. You know you’re put them on 
gels and then you know you always take a risk of the stuff getting lost. We've had so many 
instances where either the lobsters arrived— they were spoiled or because they sit out the tarmac 
for a while before they load them— but primarily if s pretty good. If s a pretty good process. The 
only difficulties I've experienced, is everybody that ever wanted to ship anything, other than the 
local stuff is the international stuff There's always been a problem doing that. Going through 
Customs say if you wanted to send a sample to the EU or you want to send something out to 
China or even to Canada. Because of Customs, there's always confusion with the— somebody on 
the other side that brings it in like a broker so sometimes there's not really any clear rules. Like if 
I call up FedEx and say I'd like to send this to Canada, oh yeah, no problem. Then you find out 
that you thought you did everything that you could do and there was an issue because certain 
times— they would let it go through customs and then it would be delivered to the destination. 
Other times they need a broker to actually broker it through. So it was up to me to monitor that 
from beginning to end. So it got frustrating because if it was something important to one of my 
bosses, they'd be like, well when you try to send out the sample out can you make sure you get it 
there? Can you do— well a lot of the times they'll say can you do it Trish? Can you do it? Yes, I 
can do it. But you know it presents you with a lot of pressure because you have to stay up. 
MHA: You seem really good with numbers. Is that one of your skills that you've learned or 
picked up over time, or always been good— 
TD: Yeah well— I mean I've always kind of been good with numbers but I mean as it applies to 
this industry you really really have to know the counts of things like what fits on a pallet. Or you 
really have to know a tier and you really have to know how many— you know you get very good 
at numbers because you rely on that to fill a truck. How many pallets go on this size truck? How 
many pallets go on box truck? How many pallets can you fit on a 53 foot tractor trailer because 
everything revolves around fitting whatever— the maximum capacity you can for the freight that 
you're paying and you want to sell products, so everybody wants to ship the most that they can 
like the rail cars. They want to ship as many— the tier— they want to fill that rail car. All the 
available space that they can, because every pound is money. It gets very important. And I also 
think. I'm a big customer service person. I love computers, I love what they do. However, I'm old 
school in the sense that I like to shake somebody's hand, I like to meet them personally, I like to 
call them and ask them how they're doing. I can sense in their voice if something is wrong. I 
cannot really pick that up unless there's a bunch of exclamation points in an email. You know 
what I mean? You really get a sense. Sometimes if you— you really have to keep in touch with 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
9 
your customers because sometimes business will drop off and there might be a reason. It might 
be because you're not doing a good job, or it might be because they're not having a good year and 
a lot of times if s just a— you're miscommunicating. You're thinking one thing and really if s 
something completely different. Some years our customers do very well, other years they have a 
bad year and they rebound the next year but. It's very important that you keep up with them 
personally, I think. 
MHA: Have you found any problems with being a female in this role? 
TD: Um, actually you know what I have a great— tremendous amount of respect for the females 
in this industry. I have to say, you have to be tough to be a female and work here, but if you’ll 
notice— if you actually polled these companies— women are extremely strong and in very hard 
positions. Especially for operations positions here. I know really tough plant managers, I actually 
worked for one. Extremely tough. But she was very good. I know three or four businesses that 
women are at the helm so I mean— me personally. I’m the first female manager here at Maritime, 
warehouse manager that's actually been in charge of running... in this facility, as far as the union 
being a supervisor— female supervisor in the Union shop. 
[25:39] MHA: So did you have to— I know they recruited you, so maybe it was a little different 
but— 
TD: Well, they didn't really recruit me. It was like— somebody upstairs that I've known for a 
really long time, said, hey, do you want to switch over? So yeah that is technically recruiting but- 
- one thing, I was just about to— I just lost my train of thought when I was going to add when 
you said that about recruiting um... oh God. 
MHA: I was basically just wondering whether you had to prove yourself or— and whether the 
women— since you're the first. 
TD: Right now I have to prove myself Everyday. 
MHA: Uh-huh. Everyday. 
TD: Every single day. Not to the customers. If s more internally kind of, than it is externally, to 
be honest with you, because I feel like people get threatened when there's a woman that is 
actually in a traditional man's role that this— I think men are always on board. It doesn't affect 
men, but other women that see women in positions, I think it's really, really hard for them to 
imagine that a woman can gain the respect of a man and manage men, and they're wonderful. I 
mean I've worked with men my whole life. In the Police Department I worked with all men. So 
I'm used to it. So if s easy for me. 
MHA: So do you have to get involved at— for example, with the contract negotiations, labor 
negotiations that kind of thing? 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
10 
TD: Actually, I haven't been involved yet but I have a sense I'll be involved this time around, 
only because in between, there’s five years in between the contract and I've had this position less 
than— they ratified the contract first, so the contract's up in 2018, so I have a sense and I'll have 
some input into that. I think all the warehouse managers will. I think that's important because... 
it's hard to describe but it's kind of like an age-old tradition when you're in the union— it's kind of 
like a lot of the rules need to be updated and more modernized for the times. I think that they 
should be flexible on both sides, you know it's 2017 now and some changes have to be made. So 
we'll see, I really want the opportunity to sit in on that and have some input. 
MHA: Good, so... now we've been talking awhile and I totally forgot; did you say when and 
where you were born? 
TD: Oh, when and wh— actually I was born in 1963 and I was born in Brockton, Massachusetts 
and— 
MHA: You're family were not— was not in the fishing business? 
TD: Nope. Not at all my dad was actually— he was a civil engineer, my mom was pretty much a 
stay at home mom. I'm the oldest of four kids and then when I was 18 years old, I ended up 
meeting somebody that I would eventually— I married. Then I moved down to Boston, so I lived 
from 18 until 40 in West Roxbury in Massachusetts, worked in the police department, Boston 
Police and then moved out here to beautiful New Bedford, well, I moved to Lakeville but 
decided to work in New Bedford. But it was funny because when I was a kid— young— old 
enough to know like probably— let's say 9 orlO I could say. And used to come here to New 
Bedford with my aunt Mary and my uncle A1 and they were part of the Sons of Italy and I used 
to remember when I got— I didn't know where it was at first, I just— until I was actually coming 
here, I said this is the spot that I looked at. When you come off of 195 East and you get off on 
Exit 15, you can see the water and I remember as a kid looking out and remembering the exact 
same picture in my mind, so I had asked my aunt, where did you bring us? She said, “oh we went 
to a church.” It was in the basement of an old church that they used to have the meetings, so I 
used to come a couple times a year. And then I remember my aunt, Mary Genest was her name. 
She always sent a Christmas card to my mother and our family and it always said Mary Genest, 
whatever the address was. New Bedford. I used to say to my mother where is New Bedford? And 
she used to tell me. Then I think I did one field trip; I went to the Whaling Museum, so. 
[30:20] MHA: Good, nice memory. It's interesting how it comes around full circle, huh? 
TD: It is, it is. I've taken a lot— I have to admit that it took a while for my family— they were 
like, “oh you're working in New Bedford, it's tough.” I had other people say, “oh, you work 
down in the docks” and, you know, “it's tough down there” and I would have to say... people are 
tough here in the sense that they have a very, very good work ethic. I mean they're very hard 
workers, very concentrated. You'll see a guy— you could talk to a guy; they put in 68 hours a 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
11 
week and they're just always at it. They get up in the morning— I don't know how they do it some 
of them— they're up 4 or 5 in the morning they stay out 8, 10 o'clock, they're doing the Boston 
runs. They're working 6 days a week. Some guys work 7 days a week and they’re just... and I 
say, “how do you have the stamina to keep up with that kind of schedule?” I mean even us, we 
work— sometimes— I mean I've worked 3 months straight. I mean we've had the ships and 
sometimes I'd say, “how am I going to keep up?” You know you just do it, you just get in the 
zone and you do what you have to do but... very, very hard workers here. In this whole area. 
MHA: So the temporary workers that you get, it's seasonally, do you have to go through an 
agency or? 
TD: We never really did, this is really the first year we would going through an agency only 
because we really wanted— because with the ships and... if s hard to get guys— let me start this 
way. Normally we had a bunch of guys that were kind of— every year— come back around and 
say, “oh when are the ships coming in?” And we had a good run of that. And then as the 
economy has been tough and things have been tough and these guys get— you know, they have 
children and families and they're older, they're not young anymore. You know, they had different 
obligations, so they can't really wait around until ship season to work say six months when they 
really need to work 12 months. Some of them we get back, because they kind work part-time but 
generally we work during the day now. We try to anyways, rather than before we'd work— it 
wouldn't make a difference. We'd work until midnight. So we're trying to be a little more aware 
of a regular day. So we lost a lot of people. So we said, “well, let's go to an agency because 
they'll already be trained as far as a fork lift, they'll have experience, we don't have to go through 
the application process.” So the jury's kind of out still with that because even though they’re 
saying that they're trained, I find that they're really not as trained as somebody— I get a better 
sense if I talk to a guy, I can tell, give a practical test on a forklift and I can tell if he can do the 
job— more so then if I get the guy in there that's from a temp agency and— [phone ringing] then 
I'm like this guy's really not trained like I would like him to be so. Excuse me. 
[Brief pause] 
TD: Where were we? 
MHA: So um... well we were talking about the using of temp agencies. 
TD: In philosophy, if s a good idea because they say that they're already screened. Meaning that 
they're drug screened, they have all their information, they give them— like if they say that they 
have to have— they usually have training for fork lifts, general manufacturing practices, that 
processing plants would normally go through. So they're supposed to have— rather than us doing 
it. 
MHA: Sanitation and all that— 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
12 
TD: Yeah, it's easier for us because we have to do some... every company really should do some 
kind of training before they go on the floor. So in philosophy, if s a very good idea and like I 
said... 
MHA: The reality is a little... 
TD: The reality is a little different. 
MHA: And how about the workers? Both the workers that are permanent employees and the 
people that come in. Are there different ethnicities represented? 
[34:31] TD: Oh, absolutely, we have... you name it, meaning we have all kinds of., we have a 
good mix of., you know, we have white guys, black guys, Spanish guys, we have people that 
speak English, people that don't speak English. Even from a temp agency, we've had people that 
are completely not fluent in English, they're fluent in Spanish and then we just... communicate 
with them. We either get another guy to speak Spanish to translate— I mean I don't turn anybody 
away that doesn't speak the language. We give them an opportunity, if they can keep up. Now if 
it really hinders their job, which I've never seen happen, I suppose if I was going to have 
somebody that didn't speak a language answering the phone, that would be a problem, but if 
they're out on the floor and they're doing work with their hands or doing work with whatever and 
their eyes, they can communicate. 
MHA: So is— are the majority of the people English speakers or is it just— 
TD: Yeah the majority of are. But we have— definitely bilingual workers here, absolutely. 
MHA: And how about any Portuguese? 
TD: Oh well, uh... yes. 
MHA: Because it used to be— 
TD: See it used to be— I— my... view of it that New Bedford used to be primarily Italian mix and 
Portuguese, but now I think it's mostly Portuguese that are here. That's my understanding, I mean 
thaf s what I see. 
MHA: And how about technology? What have you seen changed since you've been here, if 
anything? 
TD: Since I've been here at Maritime or just been in the industry? 
MHA: In the industry. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
13 
TD: Let's see. Well I used to work really closely with like the USDC and the FDA so when I first 
started to work with them it seemed like it was tough and then it got a little easy; it got a little 
easier to deal with them. At first it was like USDC, oh my God, it's this government agency and 
then when you really find that your local office, even though they are tough, and they are strict 
and they have very strict guidelines, they're very accessible. You can call them up, you can ask 
them a question. It's not like that taboo agency where it's like the Federal Government, oh my 
goodness. Even them, they've had contacts that you can call and ask questions about certificates, 
questions on commodity, if you had a question, oh can I send this or how do I do this, they've 
been very helpful. Used to be that— they used to pull samples a lot and I found out with the 
blocks at least— that they can actually do some drilling in here of the blocks and take their— do 
whatever they have to do and then issue their certificates without having to take the samples with 
them in boxes... load blocks into cars like, they'd take so many blocks per so much weight and 
we'd have the guy out there in the truck trying to load blocks and you know, it's tough. So they 
have better ways of doing things now. As far as— 
MHA: What's that stand for? USDC? 
TD: United States Department of Commerce. They're the ones that— they have to— see I'll 
explain to you the difference. If you're sending seafood to the EU— European Union countries 
for example; Belgium, France... the FDA will allow you to issue— they'll issue a certificate by 
sight, meaning you type it up, tell them what you're going to send, the case count, where it's 
going and you submit it to them and they'll issue you a certificate. A signed certificate in 
triplicate, I think, or whatever that allows you to ship with the certificates. The USDC is for, it's 
called— like with your mass packer number, you have to have a CFN number with the FDA 
which is their number that they issue. You have to be on a list. And everybody that processes and 
sends to the EU has a certain CFN number. The USDC has a mass packer number but the mass 
packer number which is issued for anybody that wants to ship using the USDC to other 
countries, not in the EU, like for example China, Vietnam... but that means that they have to 
come in physically and stamp with their seal and date every single box that you send, and if it 
gets there without you stamping it, it stays there and it comes back. So that's the difference. 
MHA: Is that our regulation or the other countries' that it's going to regulations? 
TD: It's our regulation. Department of Commerce. Well, we actually have a— we actually 
probably have an agreement because the same goes— there's an agreement between their country 
and our country, all of them that work under this so if they send product here, the same has to 
happen— their boxes have to be stamped and our boxes have to be stamped. But going to the EU, 
it's sight unseen. And what happens is that they don't post,- like on USDC because they've 
already stamped the boxes and viewed it, sampled it, tested it. They did all that. They don't get 
help up that much going where it's going. But in the FDA, stuff gets held up a little more only 
because every so often they'll— they hold it just to check to make sure because they're not 
stamped so. They hold it up a little bit. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
14 
[40:02] MHA: So if— do you ever forget to check for the stamps either going or coming. 
TD: Actually only one time that did happen to me and I panicked. And I said, oh my goodness. 
And it actually— I think— I'm— to be honest with you I can't— don't hold me to this because this 
was several years ago but I remember getting USDC in there and saying to them— and it was 
actually somebody that was there forever and ever— he's retired now, but he was like the main 
guy you know and I was like oh he's going to be like whatever. So I think I know what happened 
now. I think I told him and he said there's nothing you can do. And I think I told my boss and 
somehow we directed them somewhere and they got— I think they went to Vietnam or something 
and Vietnam was very lax, so they snuck through. But it won't happen now. Vietnam's tightened 
up. So I wouldn't try that now. Ever again. 
MHA: Have you been affected at all by fisheries regulations? 
TD: I— I'll tell you. I haven't been in this industry right here, but I— if I was working doing 
importing and exporting I definitely would— that would affect me in some way. 
MHA: And you probably see it on the waterfront. 
TD: Absolutely. And I read about it a lot. I'm interested in it. We've been affected by quotas, 
days at sea, the fishing, when the boats go out, you get a pulse of that because it goes— and sales- 
- they know how many trips that they can go out and they know what the catch is going to be and 
then in the seafood industry as a whole, especially with scallops. They— when if s time to fish 
they fish and then they process. So in the summer it’s extremely busy, that makes their winter 
inventory to freeze. They have to be very careful about that. 
MHA: What were the— what is the hardest part of your job? 
TD: You know what, to be honest, the hardest part of my job I would have to say is the contract, 
as far as making sure that you follow the contract and you don't get into any squabbles because 
then they have a grievance procedure that they use so just when you— if s just kind of a tricky 
thing because if you need something specific done on the dock you have to make sure you ask 
the correct person. Everybody has a job so you have to follow what the contract says about 
assigning somebody to do that job; if if s inside work, if if s outside work, if if s a freezer guy, if 
it's senior freezer guy and you have outside work, you have to go out and ask the senior guys 
before you say take a temporary worker and assign them to do it because then all of a sudden 
once they're at it, they say we're going to grieve you and they call the steward. And you have to 
be careful about their time. You have to be careful about the breaks because if you're allowing 
temporary guys to work it can be very costly and you have to be very careful during the ship 
season when you have labor here, to make sure that we watch that. Watch the hours. 
MHA: So, I can see that that would be very challenging. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
15 
TD: Right and then the other thing that's challenging too is that— managing the staff that you 
have, your daily staff For example, right now I have. I'm using two checkers and I have two 
operators so I have four union workers here that are assigned here right now. When the ship 
comes in I can lose up to two, I can lose more, they can all actually opt to go except for the 
checker. He'll stay here. But they can all actually opt to go to the state pier if they'd like. 
Generally I lose two guys that go to the state pier. 
MHA: And why is that? 
TD: Because contractually, under my guys are the state pier and in this building. It falls under 
my management so the state pier is an extension of Maritime. They can work on the pier 
contractually before a temp can. So they can go get assigned there, which one of my guys goes 
there and works. Another one— 
MHA: Is there a reason they would prefer to go there? 
TD: Change of scenery. There's a lot of— sometimes they work, they'll totally work the ships and 
then they could be there for overtime. I mean they’re the senior guys there because if s their 
dock. And now usually I have another one of my checkers here thaf s been a checker, he's usually 
an operator but now that I need him, he checks. He sometimes goes there as well. He's staying 
here this year but usually he goes there when I have him. They like to go. I think if s more 
change of scenery. But it gets tricky though as far as the assignments and knowing— you have to 
adjust your staff based on what you're doing so, say for example... if s quiet like right now and 
if s 2:30. Then all of sudden I'll get a phone call from upstairs and they'll say we're going to do 
shuttles; they're processing over at the bridge so we're going to send you 20 shuttles. So now if s 
2:30 in the afternoon, you see the crew I have, and then if everybody decides that they want to 
stay and work to make the hours, it's a good day because then I can say okay great. Or I could be 
sitting here and it's a Friday night and nobody wants to work and then I'm panicking because I 
know that I only have so many guys on the list and I know I need so many guys that I need to do 
the job. It's very difficult to get a temp to come in on a Friday night. So if s a nail-biter, when 
you're busy. And if s something that's really not the norm. 
[46:04] MHA: Yeah 
TD: And then on the weekends you have to make sure you have the weekend rotation list, by the 
book. If you skip over because it's a clerical error or you missed, then you end up having to pay a 
whole row of guys. If you forget to call a guy or if he doesn't answer you or you don't reach out 
to him then he gets paid. So— 
MHA: So if you call and he doesn't hear the phone or doesn't pick up or whatever— what then? 
TD: Well no, if he doesn't— well if I were to call on my work phone from my business or my cell 
phone for the company and I make an attempt and I leave a message then thaf 11 satisfy it. Now if 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
16 
I try to get away with it and somebody says to me well can you prove that? Yeah I could whip 
out my phone, here it is right here, you can see I called the guy. You're really held to that. You 
really have to have an answer, you have to have documentation. 
MHA: It's actually probably helpful with the cell phones now. 
TD: It is. It is. And sometimes we text back and forth. You get a good sense of who's the texters 
that you— I generally don't like to text but for some reason everybody else does, so. I mean text 
is a record too so if I had to do that as a last resort I will. I'd rather talk personally to somebody. 
MHA: So you personally, are you at managerial level so you don't have to keep quite as close 
track of your own time and? 
TD: Right, I'm part of management and a salaried employee. I generally have my hours from 
7:30-4:30 and then whatever is extra is required to work, meaning if s salary positions. If I'm 
required to work 100 hours, I work 100 hours. If I have to work 60 hours, I work 60 hours. Or on 
the same token, if I can get out of here in 45-50 hours, I do. Very unpredictable, if s really by... 
whatever way the whatever blows, whatever happens. So generally we have— between October 
and April is ship season. October, berry season. Now I have a whole room full of berries that are 
frozen and they're going to be ready to ship out. But when you do that you're only talking about 
by the time, it’s two or three weeks before— to get them out. 
MHA: So... oh what do you like best about your job? 
TD: I like to be busy. I like to be just engaged. I like when the ships are here, I don't like to be 
idle. I like when there's a lot of things going on. I like to learn things. I like to— I really would 
like to take on a much bigger role than I do only because I think personally that I'm very 
knowledgeable in a lot of different areas so I think that I could be... definitely utilized more. 
MHA: Who owns this business? 
TD: Mr. Wechsler 
MHA: And is that like a— did he start it? 
TD: You know I don't really know as much history as T. I know that you ask— I guess that there 
was a family here, that was here for many, many years and then Mr. Wechsler took over the 
business and I don't think he was 100% hands-on as far as— now he's here all the time, but I 
think— we used to have another general manager that was here, so you know, Mr. Wechsler 
wasn't required to be here, but he's no longer here, so I think he took on a bigger role, so he's 
more involved. 
[50:06] MHA: Does he have any family that's also involved? 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
17 
TD: I do not believe so. No, not at this time. 
MHA: So there's no impediment to perhaps moving up? 
TD: No, yeah, no, I just think that— as far as my roles since I've done— I've done so many 
different things I mean to a full extent of— they usually send out, like for example the banking 
letters of credit, importing and exporting. We have other people that do that here now. So we 
have somebody that does that here now and they don't really have the business to support me 
going there in and playing a role up in there... maybe in the future when they retire. So thaf s 
always to be determined. So I didn't come in here doing that. But I like to do that— but there's no 
job that can really encompass everything that you— you either do the importing and the exporting 
or you do the— you know, that. I've done transportation. So I really picked up and become very 
knowledgeable in this business. 
MHA: Well I remember that they— that the dealing with customs— I went to a talk once where 
somebody was talking about how complicated it is. I know they have specialists— are firms that 
help people— 
TD: Well, custom brokers? But see the things is, I think to be a custom's broker, you need to be 
logical, so you just have to really know the business, because I've had custom brokers that have 
called me and asked me for help. I've had people come and take me out for coffee and ask me 
their opinion. If s really— you have to delve into it and do it. A lot of customs brokers will go and 
theyTl just have to do the travel lanes and put it into the AES, which they usually have 
somebody in their office do that. But as far as when you handle something from the inception, 
from the processing all the way through to the other side, every step that's involved, you become 
very knowledgeable, especially when you deal with the agencies, when you do the paperwork for 
the agencies, when you're booking your own freight, when you have to see it through to make 
sure it doesn't get hung up. You're the guy on the phone at 2 o'clock in the morning making sure 
that — tracking it on your computer, making its going to where it's going because you have 
somebody to answer to and if s very important. I've gone to the seafood show and had to 
represent my company there and go and see the international people because I like to know who 
they’re dealing with, see who they are. So there's a lot of facets. 
MHA: Sounds fascinating, actually. Now how many employees does the company have? 
TD: I'd like to say 50-75. 
MHA: And that depends on? 
TD: It depends on a lot of things like we have this facility, we have West Terminal facility. We 
have the Bridge facility. We also have Delaware, and they have Hartford, Connecticut. 
18 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
MHA: Oh really? Wow. 
TD: So we have more than one location and then when you add the temps in and the office staff 
So I'd say 50-75 at least. 
MHA: And lef s see... are you mentoring anyone coming up? 
TD: I always— you know, I have Valentine here. He's here, I think they put him here because 
they weren't sure about what's going to happen with me and my foot and how long I'd be out, 
because it was a little longer than I anticipated. So he's here. The idea with him is that maybe he 
can provide some coverage during vacation times because, what happens is, in general, I can 
help Wayne across the street and Wayne can help me or vice versa. But it tends to be extremely 
busy when one of us is out, so we can't dedicate to do that. So it makes more sense if somebody- 
cross training is always a good idea. And then we have Harry at the Bridge, he's getting older, 
he's looking to retire maybe next year. So you kind of have to look forward and say, let's bring 
somebody else in, teach them... so we're hoping that Valentine can cover the— right now at least, 
be knowledgeable enough to spend time at each location and then be able to cover like vacations 
or sick time or an injury. 
MHA: How did— what did he start out as? 
TD: He came from the agency. 
MHA: Oh okay. 
TD: And actually I've only worked with him, this is my first week. Second— actually, maybe a 
handful of days. So as far as— he's a quick read. I mean if s a quick study but he's not from this 
industry so I think, myself, I think that you really have to put in the time, you really can't— you 
really do because you just get an idea of— you kind of know about all the little weird things that 
can happen. Like when I go out on a truck the first thing that I look for is “Is the truck clean?” I 
know that a lot of guys, just because they've been doing it for so long, it doesn't even dawn on 
them if they see debris in a truck or whatever, but the customers and some freezers, if they see 
that, they'll reject the load, so I make sure that the truck's clean, that there's no damage inside the 
trailer. I make sure that the temperature is going to be correct and they have the instructions for 
the driver. I make sure that— sometimes the stuff in the freezer is old, if s dusty. You want to 
send the freight out in the best condition it can be in. Guys don't really say— I want it to be 
looking good. If you see dust thaf s on it because if s been in there for a year. You want to take 
your time. If you see shrink wrap, you see the pallets not squared up, if you see a pallet that's 
broken. You have to always point those things out. They don't just do it on their own. 
MHA: Yeah. 
19 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
[55:55] TD: That's why there's a manager, because you constantly have to do housekeeping. I 
have to— everything I do has to be by instruction. Nobody's self-starter in this industry anywhere. 
If they're not told to do something they’re not going to do it, and that’s just— 
MHA: Is that true because of the union or anywhere? 
TD: I think anywhere. I think that it's like, tell me what to do and I'll do it, but I'm not going to 
create work for myself I don't know why that is. I really don't. 
MHA: It is interesting. 
TD: It’s interesting. Well, I really think if s human nature, meaning me, I overdo it. And I can't— 
if s just my nature and it's not really a good thing all the time, because then you just, you're 
frazzled. I mean you want to do this, you want to do that, you know it's kind of like an OCD 
thing. I make sure, like when I do my lock up and I do the alarm, I mean, I don't just take it to 
chance. Like if somebody tells me, “I locked the door,” I still go and check. Somebody tells me, 
“I locked the front door,” I drive my car around and I double-check. It's my responsibility. I 
mean there's a lot at risk here. I've driven back and said, “dam it did I lock— did I arm the 
freezer. I'll either call upstairs if I know somebody's there and I say can you do me a favor? Are 
you still there? Can you just mn down and make sure the freezer's armed. Just because it's so 
important. It's somebody else's livelihood too. If s somebody else's business so if s my 
responsibility to make sure. 
MHA: Now you mention the temperature. I know that there are mles about— what is it... the 
hazardous... 
TD: Ifs HACCP. 
MHA: HACCP. 
TD: Critical Control Points 
MHA: Yes. So is that is— are you effected by that? 
TD: Yes, actually. I have to— this is my process: when I take in product that I'm going to store 
here. We temp it, we temp it,— I temp it, I either take it— a probe like this and I put it right inside 
the temperature so I can get the core. Or I can take a gun like this and shoot the tmck to see what 
the temperature is. 
MHA: Oh, really? 
TD: Or— I got something else to show you, which you'll laugh. This is our infrared, thaf 11 shoot 
the temperature or... for the last five years. I've had my... here it is. I put it over there. This... 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
20 
MHA: Woah. 
TD: This right here is... this is... to check the berries. 
MHA: Wow, because you can stick it right in. Wow! I don't know if I mentioned when we talked 
that part of this is also going to involve some photography. Do you know Phil Mello? Have you 
ever run into him? He's the manager at Bergie’s? 
TD: Yes, that's where I know him from, Bergie's, yes. 
MHA: He's a terrific photographer. 
TD: Is he? 
MHA: Yeah, so he's part of the project and he's taking photographs. So when he does. I'll 
mention that you have these interesting temperature probes. And maybe that can be a prop. 
TD: Yeah, because thaf s kind of cool. I thought it was cool when I saw it. And then I report the 
temperature because like Ocean Spray, they have a certain— they have a program. They have 
their criteria, whatever it is. Standing operating procedures and we go by this. So we report the 
temperatures daily to them. They come in and do their own temps. 
MHA: How about the clementines? Do they have that? 
[1:00:00] TD: Clementine, they have— actually representatives from the people that own the fruit 
that come out and they do quality control. They do inspections. We have absolute thick book, 
this thick, of our operating procedures that goes through Homeland Security and Customs that 
we can't have any fruit laying on the ground. We have to have receptacles. There's a whole 
process. All the doors have to be locked, especially if there's a ship here. The people have to— 
like I have a TWIC card that I use that I hang on my neck down at the pier. People have to be— 
some— everybody has to have a TWIC card. It used to be that you could have like six people 
under you if you had a TWIC card but you had to accompany them everywhere they had to go. 
So we're on lockdown when a ship is here. 
MHA: TWIC card is that... 
TD: Transportation Workers Identification Card [Credential]. You have to go to I think if s 
Pocasset, they have them now or wherever they tell you. They do a background check, they have 
to do all kinds of stuff And once it comes back, if s like $130 or something to buy it. And then 
every few years— I think mine runs out this year. I'm not sure when mine runs out... pretty soon. 
Another $132. 
21 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
MHA: And do you have to pay for it or does the company? 
TD: No, the company pays for mine, but they don't pay for the workers, except the union. The 
Union they do pay for but the temporary workers, no. If s their responsibility. 
MHA: Huh, interesting. So... yeah, my husband is in aviation so I'm familiar with the cards and 
the IDs that they have to— they have to do the same things. 
TD: They probably have like TSA or something. But you have to be— now in the processing 
plants they have— I was TSA certified and then you have areas that are roped off so that you can 
certify your own freight for the airport so you can ship it and certify it, rather than get hung up at 
the airport and have to wait for TSA to come in. 
MHA: Very interesting so... is there— I really appreciate all the time— if s been fascinating to talk 
to you, but I wanted to ask if you could think of anything that I haven't asked you that I should 
have, and especially if there's anything that you think is critical for other people to know about 
your business. For example, this is all... kind of in aid of doing an exhibit and so, is there 
something that— 
TD: I personally think that by just being a union shop, I think that it scares people away in the 
sense our regular neighborhood people because they think that they have to wait during a break 
or a lunch or an afternoon break, if they—product. However that's not really the case, because 
managers, we have the authority to work somebody through a break or through a lunch or 
through an afternoon break based on... you know, whatever is going on. If I have a busy day, I 
don't just blow my whistle and say, “stop, the guys are going to have a corn muffin right now,” if 
we're busy. So that's what I mean about closely working with customers and seeing what their 
needs are, so I think that's a misconception about our own— about our neighborhood, so much. 
We have... I think we do a wonderful job in this neighborhood. I wish that people would have 
more confidence, as far as that goes. I think thaf s kind of the sticking point, is that. But I think 
that they've come around full circle now, so they're starting to realize that— you know because 
we have new management, Fm a new manager, Wayne's a new manager. Harry does a wonderful 
job. So I think thaf s kind of, that stigma’s kind of going away now. 
MHA: So has this always been a union shop? 
TD: Yes. 
MHA: Well there may be a time when I’ll ask you if I should talk to you or someone else who's 
been here. Has anybody been here through the 80s? 
TD: Oh yeah, we have several people that have been here. 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
22 
MHA: Because that was when they had the big strikes with the fishing boats and they were 
unionized. That’s when the unions were broken. So we're— at another project we're doing— 
TD: Right, right, I understand. 
MHA: .. .for the Heritage Center we're going to be looking at labor relationships. 
[1:05:03] TD: Yeah, you could probably, if you can get Pierre on a non-busy— like right now 
he’s so busy with the ships and stuff but, Pierre is really very, very knowledgeable. He's been 
here for many years. And he's very, very knowledgeable about the union, about the contract, also 
about the history. 
MHA: Okay good, and what's his last name? 
TD: Bernier. B-E-R-N-I-E-R. 
MHA: Is he French Canadian? 
TD: He is. He is. 
MHA: All right well this is— this has been fascinating. I don't know— I haven't really talked to 
anybody about this kind of work. I interviewed somebody at the Bridge Street facility once when 
I was actually doing some work on the herring. I do social impact assessments and so I 
interviewed somebody, I can't remember now who it was, but they were very interesting but it 
wasn't a long interview so I don't really know the details of how things work. 
TD: See people get confused when they— especially in the processing plants and stuff because 
everybody thinks that we're like they are, but we don't process anything. We just handle 
customer's shipments, but we also kind of we do a lot of things that are similar. Meaning we do 
shipping, we work with trucks, we do transportation, we do the same thing as like a regular 
company that produces things to sell like, say, scallop company or whatever or a crab company. 
So we touch upon the same things, but it's— we're not producing anything. We're storing things. 
MHA: And you have the cold storage but do you also freeze? Is that part of the Bridge facility? 
TD: So Bridge has blast freezers. 
MHA: So that and— 
TD: So they can blast freeze in 24 hours. 
MHA: yeah that really breaks the— 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
23 
TD: Right so what happens is say... it's ... squid season. And one of our customers is a big 
squid... they catch squid... so say they do a million pounds of squid. Well, they catch a million 
pounds of squid in a very short amount of time so it requires a ton of overtime on our part. So 
they'll freeze it over there and then they'll send it on trucks. We have a truck that shuttles it. Just, 
sometimes we'll shuttle, 10, 15, 20 loads and then— or they'll shuttle it right from Bridge or the 
customer will send it from their facility and send it here, or however they're going to do it. And 
then we have to store it. Plus the other thing here is that we don't have so much of a racking 
system in this building, so we have to make a racking system like Wester's Racks, so everything 
goes in a rack. Here we have a small amount of racks so we have to be very creative on where 
we put things. It requires a lot of planning. What goes in, must come out, so you have to be very 
careful where you, you kind of have to think about it very logically, how long it's going to be 
there, what are you going to block? You can't put something behind something that you know 
you're going to have to get at, just because you want to park something in front of it. It takes 
thought and I have a wonderful freezer— two freezer guys that are really good. They know where 
everything is when I need it. 
MHA: Good. The logistics are amazing. Very interesting. Well I should let you go, Trisha, I 
have been taking up a lot of time. 
[1:08:39] End of recording 
Interview with Trish DiCienzo, January 4, 2017 
24