Page 1 of 9 
 
Interviewee: Kathy A. Rozema 
Date: 04-12-2019 
Interviewer: Charitie V. Hyman 
Location: Goodman Public Library 
File Name: afc2018032_05007_ms01 
Background Noise: Brief interruption from library staff.  
 
Summary of Interview: Kathy Rozema describes herself as a “nerdy, smart” kid who was 
interested in healthcare at a young age. She talks about her first nursing job was a 12-hour night 
shift in medical surgery “med surge.” She notes that different hospitals have different work 
cultures. She explains she returned to school and received an MSN researching rural health 
disparities and insurance reform. She views nursing as a privilege, as intimate care that touches 
lives. She emphasizes building relationships with patients and also with the students she mentors. 
 
Time 
Content Description 
0.00.00 
Introduction 
0.00.20 
Family nurse practitioner; RN for 19 years. 
0.00.35 
Born and raised in a small town in north central Illinois. Mother stayed at home; 
one younger sister; father worked in assembly and maintenance in tractor factory. 
No other family members in healthcare. 
0.01.52 
Became interested in healthcare at a very early age. “I was fascinated with the 
human body and everything that could go wrong with it. I was like that weird 
nerdy kid that would sit there and go through the old Merck manual and medical 
books that my mom had. So, I was loving healthcare from a very early age.” 
Parents fostered interviewee’s interest; supported interviewee’s strong interest in 
academics. Took five calendar years of, and loved, high school math; sciences 
each year—e.g., anatomy and physiology, via AP classes. Graduated as 
salutatorian in class, with 120 fellow graduates. 
0.03.58 
Participated in extracurricular activities as athlete and color guard with school 
band. Felt was constantly moving from activity to activity. 
0.05.05 
Had committed to attend Western Michigan U; won Fulbright academic 
scholarship; one of 19 scholars. 
0.06.07 
Initially wanted to by physician assistant. Only a small number of programs—
Western Michigan had one of these. Felt that because other programs were 
located in cities whose size and difference from interviewee’s hometown. 
“Michigan was a little bit more community-based, a little bit more walled-off 
from the rest of the city … And it just seemed a little bit more home-y to me.” 
0.07.26 
During first year, discovered there was a minimum number of hours of clinical 
experience, and because entry to the physician assistant program was a 
competitive-admission bachelor’s program, did not gain entry. Felt that needed to 
develop a ‘plan B,’ in case did not gain entry after completing prerequisites. 
Western Michigan had just started a nursing program; felt this was a “good plan 
B.”  
0.08.43 
Considered med school, but as first-generation college student, felt that “I have 
four to five years college under my belt, and I know the value of a dollar—my 
dad was laid off in 80s with the big recession under Reagan … So, I knew the 
Page 2 of 9 
 
value of a dollar; I knew that college was not cheap and was, like, ‘Okay, I’m 
going to go, get my degree, and go out and work and be able to support myself.’” 
Felt that this, rather than any academic factors, prompted the decision not to apply 
to med school, as well as consciousness of precariousness of taking out large 
loans. 
0.09.41 
In nursing program, a first year of prerequisite classes; took this during 
sophomore year, and after another rejection from PA program, decided to enter 
this nursing program. 
0.10.08 
On clinical experience during undergrad: “It’s pretty community based.” Some 
hospital element, but not always at hospital. For example: during pediatric 
rotation, focused on special ed and special needs. At the time, a push to 
reintegrate special needs children into the classroom. “So, I was basically doing 
school nursing for a semester during my pediatric semester.” Similarly, Ob-Gyn 
experience was via taking pre-natal classes and meeting expectant parents. “So, 
like, really getting out and getting into the community a lot more.” 
0.11.36 
Found that enjoyed this experience—really liked working with people and 
“getting out and providing healthcare to people wherever I’m at, because really 
the core of nursing is prevention.” Felt there was some disagreement among 
classmates about the merits of the community-based nature of this experience.  
0.12.24 
In intro to nursing classes, during sophomore year, professor brought in some 
outside healthcare professionals (doctors, nurses, experts). One speaker was a 
nurse practitioner. “And I was listening to her and her deal and what she did, and I 
was like, ‘This is it. This is what I want to do.’” Felt that this would allow 
possibility of also working while getting nurse practitioner degree. Felt that would 
not be ICU nurse for 20 years, for example, but that would get back to grad 
school. Liked the idea of having own independent practice as nurse practitioner, 
and that pay seemed good. Also liked the idea of making diagnoses and 
assessment, and “calling the shots” and being independent. Felt that this was 
surprisingly similar to being a physician’s assistant: another plus. 
0.15.08 
Graduated with bachelor’s in science with a major in nursing. Feels that only 
people who care about the difference between this and BSN are academics. 
0.16.15 
First post-graduation job was in a med surge unit (medical/surgical) in Grand 
Rapids, Michigan. Took a night shift job, with 12 hours shifts, doing med surge. 
Felt that learned a lot in this position. Unit specialized in gastrointestinal and GU 
complaints. Example: had people suffering from colon cancer, Crohn’s disease, 
diverticulitis, needing intestines removed, prostrate removed. “So, pick a bag, 
pick a drain—I’ve probably seen it, if it comes out of your abdomen.” Worked at 
this job for two years before starting grad school. 
0.18.23 
On beginning this job: “There’s a pretty healthy orientation process for new 
nurses coming out of school.” Was paired with a more seasoned nurse; worked 
day shift for some time and then switched to night shift and was paired with, and 
learned from, a night-shift nurse. Learned how to manage patient load and a 
typical routine. “I still remember my first IV that I had gotten. I had been there 
about a month, and I like placed my first IV successfully and was jumping up and 
down, like, you know, ‘I can do stuff.’” 
Page 3 of 9 
 
0.19.49 
“There were days—I won’t lie—that I was sitting in my manager’s office and just 
bawling my eyes out. You know, it’s a big responsibility—these people’s lives are 
in your hands. You come out of nursing school and you think you know 
everything—and you know nothing.”  Common for nurses immediately after 
graduation not to think that level of institutional support greatly matters, but 
interviewee convinced it does, and that informal support among coworkers 
invaluable. “You know, nursing is an emotional profession. We as nurses are very 
privileged that we get to touch the lives of people in such an intimate way. And, 
you know, some people are just going to touch you a little bit more … And it can 
be overwhelming.” Example: having a patient in surgery and then getting them 
ready for chemotherapy over a period of 4-5 days can be an emotionally intense 
experience, and interviewee feels it important to acknowledge that such deep and 
affecting connections with patients can be formed during this time. 
0.21.50 
On dealing with this emotional aspect of the job: support from manager in 
informal meetings. Felt that over time became better at managing this—e.g., by 
‘diving into a book’ as a kind of escapism or spending time with friends and 
getting out of the work environment. And without breaking HIPPA, have general-
level conversations about the work with husband and friends that are very helpful. 
0.23.34 
On space at work for moments of feeling overwhelmed: interviewee finds this 
depends on the space, on coworkers, on layout, and on one’s own expectations. In 
interviewee’s first job, felt there was a cognizant effort to be frank that workers 
would sometimes need to ‘clock out’ (either by leaving the unit, or going to a 
room where the door could be closed for a temporary relief from the immediate 
situation). But in other positions—e.g., a job in Kalamazoo as a ‘float’ person, as 
needed—the expectation was that you would carry a cellphone to be contactable 
by patients. Felt that the culture at this environment was to be constantly 
contactable by patients and that this made it harder to decompress. Was also 
introduced to ‘mandated overtime’ and that this is something that “still plagues 
nursing to this day.” As ‘float’ nurse, was not eligible for union. Was on 12-hour 
shifts with very few breaks; had experience with ‘mandated overtime’ only near 
end of time there and found it impossible to countenance. “To try to have a full 
mind and care for patients for four more hours [after regular 12-hour shift] is 
crazy and frankly not safe.” 
0.28.01 
On mandated overtime: there have been studies on fatigue and patient risk that 
has highlighted the cost, even up to patients dying. But the real world can be slow 
to adapt to this research and does so in an institution-variant way. “I think another 
way people at the local level have taken control honestly is unionization and 
having a seat at the table. Because otherwise folks … are not getting a say. The 
push for nurses and unions has been, (a) taking care of the caregivers and helping 
us to maintain our sanity while, (b) providing good patient care.” Feels that union 
for nurses is unlike other unions; interests of nurses are tied closely to interests of 
good patient care. 
0.30.51 
At the time interviewee worked at this job, strength of union varied from 
institution to institution. Feels like some senior nurses ‘defaulted’ to arrangements 
like mandated overtime, and union was helpful in negotiating for other 
alternatives. 
Page 4 of 9 
 
0.31.49 
Worked at this job as RN while in grad school (partly to help meet living 
expenses), using nights to allow other commitments to be fulfilled. Enrolled at 
University of Michigan Ann Arbor for grad school. This meant a roughly two-
hour commute. At this time, much less online education. Felt that had experience 
already of juggling conflicting commitments, which made decision and 
experience easier. 
0.34.11 
Accepted and enrolled through College of Nursing at University of Michigan. 
Program allowed specialization in different tracks. But, e.g., a family nurse 
practitioner would play functionally similar role to, e.g., a family physician. 
Others focus on women’s health, pediatrics (including various subspecialties); 
adult; geriatrics. In Michigan, feels there’s more acceptance of pediatric nurse 
practitioners in general pediatric practice. Also, a possibility of focusing as a 
nurse anesthetist. 
0.37.38 
Interviewee initially wasn’t sure whether wanted to focus in pediatrics or another 
area. Decided that wanted to care for a variety of people, and therefore ended up 
in family practice. 
0.38.14 
Commitments and the long commute meant that program took slightly more than 
two years. Undergrad capstone project was doing translation on nursing education 
materials for Spanish language speakers. For thesis work, wrote white paper on 
rural disparities in relation to Medicare Part D. Discussed how incentives in 
program led practitioners to ‘follow the patients,’ disadvantaging residents of 
more sparsely populated rural areas. Felt this solidified a long-standing interest in 
health policy, dating from undergraduate studies. Had felt that, even as 
independent nurse practitioner, the state determines many of the choices one 
makes, and so that the group has to speak with a collective voice in order to make 
a positive change. 
0.41.55 
After graduation: husband had also graduated from postgraduate work and 
continued to work as adjunct faculty, but end of this work prompted a move to 
Pennsylvania. Interviewee at time was done with graduate degree but had not yet 
taken ‘Boards.’ Took job with local hospital in Pennsylvania as RN and took this 
position for two years. 
0.43.52 
At this time connected with local Penn State nursing program and met with 
director of a program. There was a demand to precept nursing students at the time. 
This was interviewee’s first introduction to using master’s degree in working life. 
Preceptor has a group of 6-8 students during their clinical experience to answer 
their questions and double-check various things. These students function under 
the preceptor’s license, and preceptor is in charge of these students, “and basically 
makes sure they don’t do anything dumb and kill anybody.” Precepted for 
undergraduate students for three semesters “and I was kind of done at that point.” 
Also worked at the hospital, on evening shift, in medical/surgical unit once again.  
0.45.51 
Changed positions within the hospital “due to toxicity and poor management” and 
moved to emergency department. Felt that this was not due to doctors, but more to 
do with “local culture.” Although Penn State is large, without students it’s only 
about 10,000 people and with a highly rural hinterland in the middle of the 
Appalachian mountains. “Culturally, I have found when I was there, it was nurses 
that were racist—racist against people who were Latino/a or Spanish-speaking 
Page 5 of 9 
 
clients. I found nurses who were small-minded … And many of the nurses were 
hospital-trained and very few had university training.” “Me coming in, I made no 
secret of the fact I was master’s prepared, and my boss, who had her Associate’s 
degree, she was very threatened by me. And I was vocal.” “And it got to the point 
where things were getting very cliquey, and I was just not happy, and I wanted to 
get out.” Felt that ER would be a better fit, and could be more autonomous, and 
involve “using my brain a little bit” and be better preparation for being in 
practice. At the ER, felt that some staff members “had a whole different level of 
toxicity”: felt that this dovetailed with the research on bullying and ‘nurses eating 
their young.’ One nurse in particular, interviewee felt was “just the biggest bully,” 
even though interviewee was at this point “fairly seasoned.” Interviewee asked for 
an exit interview on departure “and called these people out.”  
0.51.15 
“It was that small-town, everybody-knows-everybody kind of hospital … So, 
nothing changes. It was that kind of situation, and I was happy to be gone.”  
0.51.44 
Had “fallen into” first nurse practitioner job at same time, at a family planning 
clinic, focusing on women’s exams, birth control, working with the uninsured (but 
not abortion). Was hired to fill in for a nurse practitioner on maternity leave. “It 
was kind of like, feet to the fire, here you go. It was a good experience—a good 
flavor of what was to come … It was a very fluid kind of situation, but at least 
you got some good experience.” Felt there was a lot of “schedule juggling” at this 
time. 
0.53.20 
Not really sure what a ‘dream job’ would be: “I think that’s kind of varied and 
kind of fluid, depending on where in my life you’re talking to me. What I thought 
would be my dream job five years ago might not be now … It might not be what 
I’m ready for or what I want to do.” 
0.54.05 
After this period, was difficult to find jobs both for husband and self, given 
different specialties and career timelines. Drove five hours after getting off an 
evening shift for an interview for a job run by Johns Hopkins in Twin Cities. But 
husband had been offered a job in Madison the same day. Liked the idea of using 
and developing ER experience and growing a clinic “from the ground up.” 
Decided against Minnesota on grounds of distance from family. Took job at small 
rehab hospital in Waterford, Wisconsin, in western Racine county—about an hour 
and a half commute from Madison. The hospital specialized in 
neurorehabilitation, and people who had suffered brain surgeries. Worked with 
residential case side of hospital, rather than sub-acute side. Example: brain 
injuries, cognitive deficit. Something more akin to a group home, but in a 
residential facility. Had a pediatric unit. “Neuro and psych are very much 
intertwined.” Adult unit had people who had stroke at a young age or psychiatric 
problems in youth. Job was a main first-line primary care provider, could adjust 
medications, take vaccination status, etc., and various tasks that might otherwise 
fall off the radar. Did not dose psychiatric meds, but otherwise similar to primary 
care provider. Each had own psychiatrist, with which interviewee coordinated. A 
relatively small population, but relatively in-depth care relative to traditional 
primary care. “I learned a lot. It was probably one of the best situations for a ‘not 
getting thrown to the wolves’ first-time nurse practitioner job. I had time to step 
Page 6 of 9 
 
back and thrive and grow and kind of figure things out … It was a really good 
experience—you learn these little nuggets and you kind of carry them with you.” 
1.01.20 
Had a collaborating physician but saw only once a week. So felt was quite 
autonomous in the position. “This was me paving my own way—trying to work 
within the bounds of the system, but it was also me trying to kind of figure out 
‘Where do I fit in?’” Wrote own collaborative agreement at the time. Whether 
these are required depends on state; Wisconsin requires one, although doesn’t 
specify form it should take. Wisconsin relatively lax on this front. Nurse 
practitioners work under own license; not attached to anyone. So can go into 
independent practice—sometimes a collaborative agreement with a physician is 
needed; sometimes not. About 20 states have similar arrangements, required to 
practice to full scope of licensure. Some of this a holdover from nurse 
practitioners being a new role; some to do with how medical profession has 
evolved (e.g., with a huge demand for physician primary care providers and high 
burnout rates)). Some would say they have to be tied to a doctor, because the 
profession is physician centric. Burnout also an issue within nursing, “but it kind 
of speaks to the healthcare system as a whole—the docs can’t do it alone … Just 
get the red tape out and let us do what we do. No good nurse practitioner is going 
to work in a vacuum and not consult with other people … Frankly, I’ve caught 
stuff that docs don’t know about. Everybody brings their own expertise to the 
table. It’s like, we should all work together for the good of the patient … People 
are complex; healthcare’s complex. I don’t care if you’re a family physician or 
not; you’re not going to know everything.” 
1.07.49 
Left this position because of the long commute; onerous in winters. Opportunity 
arose in the “boom” of retail healthcare. The idea was to have a new place, a 
community, to get convenient healthcare—e.g., ‘minute clinic.’ Worked for Take 
Care Health, partnered with Walgreen’s, who were opening clinics in Madison. 
Got to do full spectrum of work—like a walk-in urgent clinic. Felt like working in 
independent practice. Worked with this company in Fitchburg for 1.5-2 years. “I 
was pretty happy … You get your sore throats, your rashes, urinary tract 
infection, that kind of thing. Flu season, it was like, ‘I know how to give shots, I 
know how to do this.’ It wasn’t like anybody was going to die—I had only a 
couple I was concerned about.” But felt like the scope of work was fairly limited. 
Clinic closed because of a business decision. 
1.11.14 
Feels that in Wisconsin healthcare is very local HMO-driven. While clinic had 
association with national organizations, could never get empaneled with local 
HMOs. “So even nurses, we’re not immune, even though there’s a nursing 
shortage.” 
1.12.21 
When this job ended, had first round of unemployment and mandatory job 
training (because of receiving unemployment). Felt these training sessions were 
needless because of length of application process for nurse practitioner position. 
1.13.11 
Interviewed for a Planned Parenthood position. Worried about qualifications for 
this job, e.g., being bilingual in English and Spanish. But interviewed well and 
worked for Planned Parenthood for seven years. “My responsibilities were 
focused the family planning end of things … well-women issues, STDs, birth 
control, I learned how to put in IUDs, arm implants. I ended up training 
Page 7 of 9 
 
physicians who were going to med school. They ended up coming to my boot 
camp sessions, learning how to put in IUDs.”  
1.15.21 
On the relationship with trainee doctors: “I think that UW has done a really good 
job of preparing their physicians to think, ‘You’re not the only person in the 
healthcare system; you’re not the only person who has expertise in XYZ. And 
frankly there’s a whole lot of people out there who’ve been doing this a lot longer 
than you, and really know what they’re doing.’ … I precepted a pretty good core 
of people, and some of them got hired, and I have great relationships with them to 
this day. I was really focused on what I was doing and worked with a really good 
core of people. I really tried to foster a good work environment. All of those bad 
work environments, I really wanted none of that to happen when I had my say. So 
really keep things light and fun but doing the work—everyone’s focused on the 
same thing. And it’s like, ‘Let’s try and get it done.’ And treating people with 
respect, because you know what, that’s what you should do when it’s a human 
being.” 
1.17.27 
Still feel very close to, and sees socially, people at Planned Parenthood: “We joke 
that it’s like our Madison alumni association.”  “And it’s almost like, you kind of 
try to keep tabs on people—but life gets so busy—but it’s like you have those 
friendships, where you drop the baton and then pick it up again. That’s so rare but 
so nice to have. So, I won’t ever regret my time there. I learned leaps and bounds 
and met some really great people.” 
1.19.00 
Worked with one other nurse practitioner because the Madison clinic is 
comparatively busy. Still considers this coworker a good friend. “We each had 
our specialties. Like, ‘I have this weird rash [on a patient]—can you come look at 
this? You’re the family health person … Even to this day, we’re doing random 
texting about random things… like, ‘What do you do in this situation?’” 
1.20.18 
One RHA (research health assistant) had gotten into a competitive UW program, 
and has become a genetics counsellor; feels like having relationships with this 
kind of person is very valuable when unusual situations come up and fosters a 
sense of community and joy in others’ achievements. 
1.21.31 
Left this position after seven years—by far the longest tenured job that 
interviewee had had. In the last year, there was “more push to see more patients,” 
and less autonomy in patient care, pressure to do, e.g., an anal exam in 10 
minutes. “What am I gonna do, go in and not talk to them, and do a gynecological 
exam and a breast exam and not ask about your birth control? No; that’s not how I 
operate.” Although not involved in abortion provision per se, cared for after-
abortion patients—“as primary care providers do too, though that’s not talked 
about.” But because of Planned Parenthood’s political status, a lot of nationally 
issued guidelines that created some of these newer restrictions. “You were very 
much married to what was in those protocols.” Example: “I had a patient, lovely 
Spanish-speaking patient, uninsured who had breast pain. So totally within my 
purview, right? … It ended up she had shingles. It’s a herpes virus, a re-
occurrence of chickenpox … And I’m like, ‘OK. So, the treatment for that is a 
little bit different, but the same medication as I’d try a genital herpes outbreak.’” 
Felt that normally would be very unlikely for this record to be pulled, and that 
medication that could be prescribed would be identical in effect. But was denied 
Page 8 of 9 
 
permission to prescribe this medication, leaving the patient in a difficult medical 
and financial situation. “And I was just like, ‘This is bullshit’ … It was the straw 
that broke the camel’s back. So, I went home and just started interviewing for 
other jobs. And I got a call like the next day.” 
1.27.34 
“Looking at my career, I feel like I’ve not really done anything traditionally. And 
that I’ve been stepping to my own beat, and outside the box a little bit … So, I 
feel like I’ve kind of been like a barrier-breaker for most of my career.” Feels that 
the job is taking what you know and trying to figure out how to use that best for 
employer and patient. “Flexibility is key, but also knowing your limits and how 
far you can go. And as I’ve grown as a person and a provider, I’m more willing to 
put my foot down and say, ‘This is a hard line I’m not going to cross.’ And really 
looking at my morals as a provider: ‘Is this appropriate patient care?’ … With 
busy primary care practices, I think [missing things] does happen. I won’t lie. But 
it’s trying to find where is the balance.” 
1.29.50 
On spending more time with individual patients, over and above importance for 
accurate diagnosis: “When I was with Planned Parenthood, it was like, ‘What is 
this person’s story?’ … It was like going through and getting a good history 
points you in the right direction for like 80% of diagnoses. So, sitting down and 
knowing the questions to ask. It’s like, ‘Oh, you’re using weird tampons. Get a 
different tampon and maybe that’ll do it.’ … So, it’s nice to have that continuity 
of care. But honestly a lot of healthcare is—you’ve got to sit and listen to people. 
You get a lot of folks who are very paternalistic in medicine. And people are like, 
‘You have this. Pooh-pooh on your symptoms, you have this.’ And so, it’s 
listening to people—making them feel like they’re heard.” 
1.32.02 
An example of the above: when worked in ‘float’ capacity at different clinics, one 
patient—27 or 28 years old—in clinic was first time. Patient felt she had 
particular condition and had noticed hormone and weight changes. Since patient 
was a ‘natural bodybuilder,’ was very aware of her diet and regimen. Patient’s 
previous provider, a resident, had not, patient felt, listened to her. (Interviewee 
thinks this a common reason for change of provider.) After lab work, patient’s 
self-diagnosis turned out not to be accurate; patient had dermoid cyst on ovary. 
Other providers were inclined to ‘keep an eye out.’ But interviewee looked into 
the literature and discovered cyst could secrete hormones. “So, I basically went 
back to the primary care provider and was like, ‘I don’t know if you know, but 
these things can secrete hormones, and that might explain a lot of her symptoms.’ 
… So, if she hadn’t been listened to you, she never would have gotten diagnosed 
properly. If you don’t sit and listen to people, you don’t get that.” 
1.35.55 
With other patients, noticing small details—e.g., a recalcitrant lymph node that 
hadn’t been treated for insurance reasons—caught a patient’s leukemia early; 
patient later thanked interviewee for saving her life. “And this is nursing in and of 
a nutshell and primary care providing in and of a nutshell. It’s like, you do the 
dirty work, and you don’t quite know what’s going, but you figure it out. But you 
gotta sit and listen to people first and not blow off their symptoms. And I think as 
a primary care provider but also as a nurse, that’s what nurses do. We listen to 
people. Again, we are blessed I think in a way to be so intimately involved in 
people’s lives, and kind of helping them to work through their stuff.”  
Page 9 of 9 
 
1.37.22 
Feeling of being blessed but also a responsibility to look at research and listen to 
people and connect with them. Feels that nurse role an important conduit between 
research that academics do and practical healthcare; and making a positive impact 
on people’s lives. Feels that this much more important than money, although feels 
that is paid well for work done. “Making those connections with people—it’s 
really ultimately the relationships you’re making with people. And taking that 
knowledge and those relationships and building on that to make positive change 
for people’s lives.” Feels that often if a patient sees a primary care provider, 
there’s little time for conversation about wider health, but that as a nurse 
practitioner can engage in these questions more with patients and make a broader 
positive change in these ways. 
1.40.22 
Feels that builds much broader relationship and rapport with people and feels that 
this is what primary care is all about.