afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
1 
KENNY & NEIL STYRON, Diesel boat engine repair 
 
Katy Clune  00:00 
Press record. This is Katy Clune on June 4, 2021, in Davis, North Carolina with Julia Gartrell and—
please introduce yourselves and what you do for a living, or did for a living? 
 
Kenny Styron  00:11 
Kenny Styron, Davis, diesel mechanic, part time, now. 
 
Neil Styron  00:21 
Commercial fishermen, did that too. 
 
KS  00:24 
Did commercial fish for years.  
 
NS  00:28 
Carpenter, electrician, done jack of all trades a little bit for the family but mainly a commercial 
fishermen and diesel mechanic. 
 
KC  00:39 
And Neil? 
 
NS  00:40 
Neil Styron or Kenneth Styron Jr. I'm a junior but I go by Neil. Currently I work for the Department of 
or D.O.D. Marine Corps for a--- at a bombing range. I'm like electronic integrated system mechanic 
work on target boats for the, for the Marine Corps. But I grew up my father in his footsteps as a 
commercial fisherman diesel mechanic, went to the Army Reserves became a diesel mechanic and 
Reserves watercraft engineer on army boats. And went on up became a chief engineer Warrant Officer. 
I'm still in but it's always been around boats and and water and engines so I'm still doing it and still help 
him out whenever I can. But just always had a calling to it. Working on stuff 
 
KC  01:35 
Kenny would you tell us a little bit about your family background and the earlier part of your career? 
 
KS  01:45 
Well, I come from a fishing family my great---- my grandfather was a fisherman. He and my father went 
in business, built fish houses and boats and all together. And kinda I grew up in that. We are got more 
mechanically then what the fishing part of it was. Just fell into doing mechanic work. And these other 
people get broke down I go help other people and finally just got for help a lot of other people you know 
up and down the coast. 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
2 
 
Julia Gartrell 02:15 
What kind of fishing were your family doing? 
 
KS  02:17 
Well shrimping and fishing and anything. My father moved back to Davis he built a freezing operation 
where he froze menhaden [a type of fish] for bait. And we had an operation doing that about 20 years. 
We would catch 'em, he would freeze 'em you know put 'em in 50-pound cartons froze bait. And we 
done that for years. Then he finally, I say, he had a stroke in 2003 and had a storm destroyed it and most 
of the stuff, nobody didn’t keep it up, so we just closed that business down. I've been, I've been on 
mechanic work since then. 
 
KC  02:56 
Did you see any of the fishing---- did the fishing industry change while you were part of it like how 
much you could catch or how people were approaching it? What changed? 
 
KS  03:08 
Well the seventies and eighties everything was booming all the fishing industry. And it seemed like after 
the nineties it started getting more and more hurricanes and different thing and everything more or less 
died out around this area. Got slower and slower. There're boats going further North scalloping 
shrimping further south. And this particular area right here really really died out died down for some 
reason. But done the same thing in the 50s. I started school in Key West in '58. Cause daddy's down 
there shrimping. There wasn't nothing to do here. Like I say in the sixties, seventies, and eighties, 
everything was booming. It just did cycles of it, I guess. And now we're on a downward cycle. But last 
few years we've had a new fishing industry showed up we never had before what they call a white 
shrimp. The shrimp was always local from here to Georgia and South Carolina. But now they moved up 
Chesapeake Bay. Now that way in a full year they'll migrate back south.  I'm talking about where to 
catch big loads of shrimp that never been done before till last three or four years. I guess warmer climate 
is just migrate right on North. 
 
KC  04:23 
Do you think being---- focusing on the mechanic side of it was a good career choice? 
 
KS  04:30 
Oh yeah, well kept me working. There's always someone broke down. We've been---- well he's helped 
me too. He’s been shad fishing operation in Beaufort Fisheries. I've been over all night long on their 
boats and go home go fishing next day. Makes long days.  
 
KC  04:51 
How did you learn? Was it...? 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
3 
 
KS  04:54 
Just was a hands on. I never did go to school, now he [Neil] went to school. It was hands on stuff.  
 
NS  05:00 
It's kinda in your blood, you had a great Grandpa Joe Williams.  
 
KS  05:03 
Yeah 
 
NS  05:03 
He was mechanically inclined he was a blacksmith, weren't he?  
 
KS  05:06 
Yeah there's some mechanical ability on my grandma side.  
 
NS  05:12 
It's,  it's funny to see, like, you'll see it in some---- you can look around some of the families in the, in 
the area that people that were prominent mechanic--- mechanically inclined or have that trait you can see 
it go through the generations. Like, like....  
 
KS  05:25 
We're on a kind of a decline.  
 
NS  05:28 
Yeah, some people they don't know how to use a screwdriver.... 
 
BS  05:31 
Did you already say about Uncle Joe? 
 
NS  05:32 
Well you mentioned Uncle Joe, yeah, he was from---- but yeah he so he had it in his... But yeah Uncle 
Joe yeah that's right he was  
 
BS  05:38 
He taught that 
 
NS  05:39 
He taught at East Carteret High School. He was a auto mechanics teacher in the high school level for 
how many years? 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
4 
 
KS  05:47 
I know 20 years, I reckon] 
 
NS  05:48 
He retired as a school teacher, yeah.  
 
KC  05:51 
So you were handy growing up? Do you make like did you make things outside or work too? 
 
BS  05:59 
Well yeah,  
 
NS  06:00 
He built a go cart or something at nine. How old were when you fixed your go cart? 
 
KS  06:03 
I don't know, not very old. 
 
NS  06:05 
Nine or ten years old you built one. What a lawn mower engine or something?  
 
KC  06:12 
High performance [crosstalk] 
 
KS  06:17 
Back then, you couldn't ride 'em on the highway like you do now. They'll give you a ticket. So gotta 
sneak down the road somewhere then. Now they got golf carts all over the neighborhood. 
 
BS  06:28 
The post office was across the road from where he grew up as a small child. And the postmaster told us 
that she watched him one day from the window 'cause it was kind of slow with the local post office back 
then when--- what 60 something years ago? And watched him put a---- was it a lawnmower together? 
He took a lawnmower apart, were you even in school?  
 
KS  06:52 
I dunno. [crosstalk].  
 
Barbara Styron  06:54 
And then put it back together. And thats how he's always done.  
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
5 
 
KS  06:59 
I take it to pieces and make it work. Yeah. 
 
JG  07:04 
And Neil, why did you decide to make it official and go get the degree----  you did a degree... Where 
again?  
 
NS  07:11 
I went to Nashville to diesel college, and got that and ended up doing the online [crosstalk] Basically, 
you've always heard the expression to have a piece of paper in your hands. Um, you can be---- have all 
the street smarts and be I mean, know everything just grew up in in the environment. But unfortunate, in 
this day and age, if you go to try to apply for a job somewhere, it's like, you don't have any credentials. 
I'm sorry, we're gonna get this guy that sat in school, so it's a balance. I mean, you get people sit in 
school all the time. I mean, it's a lot of things in the world. I mean, you have book smarts or street smarts 
kinda deal. Being well rounded, makes ---- you need to be, you know, well rounded. I mean, you get 
strong in one aspect or the other, you have weak spots. So I did that just to have it on paper and I still 
work, when I come back, I still work with Father for another four or five years.  
 
KS  08:05 
Yeah, I told him come back and work with me. He ‘d learn how to do something. Put your hands on, 
you know. 
 
NS  08:12 
You learn, I learned some theory in school, obviously, any type of trade. But working with my father for 
so many years, you have so much experience just, just so many different things you're working on that 
you can apply that theory to. Or after initially learning with him working on the water as a kid, I mean, 
just you follow a lot of time in your father's footsteps, whatever they do, I mean, a lot of times. And I 
enjoyed it. And after learning some of that hands on, went to school and it's like well, so this makes 
more sense. Then coming back and applying it back. It's like Yeah. 
 
JG  08:45 
Yeah, there's probably not a lot of big diesel boats in Nashville, huh? [laughs] 
 
NS  08:50 
No, Nashville was a beautiful city. It was just 14 hours away. It was like, if it'd been like an hour away 
but I could have stayed there for a while but.... Came back and stayed here but.... And like I said that 
Nashville Diesel College like say there's not there weren't, weren't a whole lot of marine aspect. But an 
engine is an engine to a point so a lot of the same theories. But uh, yeah, mainly just to have a piece of 
paper in hand that said, Hey, I can, I can read a book I can learn, so.  
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
6 
 
BS  09:22 
It was against his mother's wishes I'll add that too.  Because I wanted him to go to NC State to be an 
engineer because he just had all the ----- his professor, or, teachers at high school. He was like acing 
calculus and physics and all that. And history and science said he needs to go to college and he said, I'm 
not going to college and write one more day of poetry. I'm not reciting another line. He hated English, 
he despised it. And then he got into the army and he's an officer and he has to write more papers and 
things like that. But he would not go because of that. Because of English. 
 
NS  09:59 
Looking back, it's, I mean, I wouldn't change anything. Like see, I would have enjoyed going to 
somewhere like State, going to get an engineering degree. But I had four sisters, I was the youngest. I 
had four sisters all went and got the master's, at UNCW, and then went different ways. I think one of 
them went to one to Bowman Grey and finished up and then she worked at Duke for a while in the 
hospital now that both my older sisters are in Portland, Oregon. One's a nurse and one's a medical, 
medical technician. One works in Cherry Point, and the other one, she's a --- stay at home, where she 
teaches 
 
BS  10:35 
She's got two degrees but she’s at home with four kids. Doing homeschool.  
 
NS  10:40 
So as the youngest one, watching them go through school and hating it, and always just as ... I know if I 
want to do that or not. Just another four years of school when I was like, I'm going the technical route 
and I still have an associate's degree out of it, and I got a lot of certifications and training from the army, 
which is a lot of good experiences. But yeah, I just enjoyed doing it and like anything, never stopped 
learning. So 
 
JG  11:05 
Yeah, it's very practical, and there's always gonna be engines to fix. It's good to have the credentials. 
 
NS  11:12 
And technology's always changing, so you want to try to stay, stay ahead a little bit yeah. 
 
KC  11:18 
Did you teach your dad anything after you came back?  
 
NS  11:21 
Some.... some some of the newer stuff. 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
7 
KS  11:24 
The electronic stuff.  I got enough old school stuff to keep me busy. 
 
NS  11:33 
I'd figure out some things but most time, I mean he was smart enough that he could mess with it and just 
keep troubleshooting and trying different ways. And I may have found one way to do it. There's always 
more than one way to figure out --- but he because he knew how to do it, he could figure it out and there 
was times like, I could apply what I'd learned into it and we could put our heads together and come up 
with solution so. 
 
KC  11:57 
How does that work, does someone-- is someone out at sea fishing and their boat breaks and they call 
you and you have to go get to them? Or do they make it back to shore? 
 
KS  12:08 
Most of them make it back to shore. 
 
KC  12:10 
What kind of stuff is breaking in your ….? 
 
KS  12:13 
Well I mean anything dropping values, breaking valve springs, any major thing can break down. Had a 
boy call me a ---- little what over three years ago now? He was off New Bedford. 
 
NS  12:26 
Massachusetts.  
 
KC  12:27 
Wow  
 
KS  12:27 
Massachusetts. About 75 miles offshore. I had to go, up there, flew up there had  to  take the engine 
down, to home, got the part, and flew back up and put her back together.  
 
KC  12:42 
How did he know to call you? 
 
KS  12:43 
Well this is a local boat, they were scalloping. 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
8 
NS  12:47 
There's quite a few local boats local businesses that have their own fleets and a lot of times, dad has had 
a really good relationship with them. And maintains their boats and they can trust, trust daddy and he's 
always been given a hard time about it, but he doesn't charge as much as a lot of people. Which you get 
more business, but I said you've got your seventy, almost seventy years old. The knowledge you have in 
your head is almost like, I mean it was a lawyer. You call a lawyer for advice they're going to charge 
you whatever the phone calls going to be. 
 
NS  13:19 
And just saying that because he doesn't charge a whole lot. It's more of a trust thing, that's what dad said. 
I said you can probably raise your rates a little bit, but he doesn't want to. "I don't want to inconvenience 
them" or he feels that way. But they know if they call him, it's going to be done right. You take a large 
ship or trawler goes into port in New Bedford, somewhere. If they don't have a relationship with those 
mechanics, they come on board and they're gonna -- they know they have the money so.  
 
NS  13:43 
It's like yes it's going to cost tenfold, I mean to do the work and it's like well, "we'll fly you up there if 
you'll fix for us because we know you're if you're not going to give us a lot of BS or whatnot, just to 
throw money out and replace it. Which yeah if you change the engine out, they got new engines are 
going but did you have to replace the whole engine? Could you just fix a small -- this one widget in ----? 
 
KS  14:07 
We left here one time there was a dredge boat in Cameron, Louisiana, Yeah. 
 
KS  14:11 
We drove 18 and a half hours to get there. Fixed it in 45 minutes.  
 
NS  14:17 
$1.50 part. 
 
KS  14:19 
Yeah. Caterpillar and company kept working on it for three days, couldn't find it.  
 
BS  14:24 
What was it they charged them too? 
 
NS  14:27 
Just unfortunate. The charge rate for a business --- 
[phone call] 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
9 
KC  14:34 
Busy life!  
 
NS  14:39 
But yeah, it can be something as simple as --- Something sample as a ball or a hose or something 
collapses, and they can't quite figure it out to catastrophic engine failure that takes weeks to replace the 
engine, installing new engines and stuff. But like you're asking, yeah, the boat could be offshore broke 
down, most time most of those boats are working late. So if the trawler has a significant failure, 
especially if just one propulsion engine, they'll get towed in to the nearest port and then they'll try to fix 
it. But a lot of your newer boats, for redundancy will have two engines, so if one goes down at least they 
can limp home. Because you don't want to be out 20 miles offshore on a trawler and lose your main 
propulsion you're just bopping around so 
 
KC  15:32 
So, it never occurred to me that you could travel so much for this job. Did you know that when you were 
going in or was this...? 
 
KS  15:39 
Well like I said there were the local boats, and I wanted to help them do work, you know and just follow 
them where ever they go. 
 
BS  15:46 
He had no clue he was going to end up flying. They flew him, who was the company flew him down to 
Florida? 
 
NS  15:53 
B+B dredging. 
 
BS  15:53 
The dredging company, they flew him several times 
 
NS  15:57 
Their foreman was the local man that knew daddy knew, his work ethic. And he approached him one 
time, said that we got a boat and it's got some problems with it. Well, well, so So the first one we 
actually traveled with was a ---we went to West Palm Beach. Yeah, we went to West Palm Beach and 
did some work for them, they flew us home, and everything was was paid. And plus for labor and 
everything but just just the the trip itself was worth ---- the first time I was like, wow. Because we've 
seen some nice areas. But just his work ethic and his reputation. A lot of the businesses we went 
traveling --- 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
10 
BS  16:32 
[Cross talk]    they used to use him up there 
 
NS  16:32 
Oh, yeah. All these all these businesses are from this area. And they with commercial fishing, like I said 
he was at Key West when he was a kid. So the local fleet went that far south. So they go out different 
places to the fishing bottoms. So they may be as far as New Bedford Massachusetts working and instead 
of depending on the local support in that area, they’d rather have their own mechanic go up. And so 
dad's like, yeah I'll go. 
 
BS  17:01 
The man in New Bedford, I went with them two years ago, because Neil was working and there was no 
one else to go. My daughter went with him onetime.  
 
KC  17:11 
Barbara, can you introduce yourself? Just so we have it on the audio recording? 
 
BS  17:17 
His wife of 50 years in December, Barbara Lewis Stryon. 
 
KC  17:22 
Thank you.  
 
BS  17:23 
Yeah.  
 
KC  17:23 
Is there any? You know, it's clear you have a reputation and it's about trust. But is there any superstition 
that goes into boat? engine repair?  
 
KS  17:40 
No, there’s a lot of superstition on boats, but not  
 
KC  17:41 
Yeah, [laughter[ engine is the clear zone, that’s just mechanic.  
 
JG  17:47 
Have you ever had to rescue somebody from a very dicey or scary situation? 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
11 
KS; No 
 
NS  17:54 
You've gone up. You and Don went and helped recover the -- tell them about the Atlantic Breeze. That 
was a menhaden fleet. How long was that boat, a couple 100 feet. Yeah, the menhaden fleet. Well, when 
we had them, we had a small menhaden fleet. We had like 40-50 foot trawlers that would go.  
 
NS  18:10 
Use a purse seine which is basically you have two small boats, called purse boats. And they had a net. A 
shot of net, that was just a straight design like a long rectangle, but it's pretty deep. They encompass a 
body of fish, pull the bottom up together, make it a bowl and just make it smaller and smaller and 
smaller and basically fish out well. That same principle was done off in deeper waters, all along the east 
coast and the Gulf of Mexico to catch menhaden, they use it for fertilizer, makeup, paints, all kind of the 
fish meals used for certain things and the fish oil, the products from the fish were used, or we just use it 
for, they’d freeze it and use it for bait for fishing pots.  
 
NS  18:50 
Well, so these larger vessels would come up and down along the east coast. And this particular one ran 
aground.  
 
KS:  Run over a wreck 
 
NS : A wreck knocked a hole in it, and it went on the beach, but they had already helped recover the Sea 
Hornet, didn't you? There was another one that happened a few years before, and the crew that did it 
recogn—knows how good daddy and that crowd helped just doing the recovery operation.  
 
KS  19:14 
All you got to do, she was on the beach and she was full of fish, which later, a month or more on the 
beach, the fish rotted. So we carried pumps over there, the fish pumps we had and pumped the fish off 
her, just to get rid of them. To lighten the load. 
 
NS  19:27 
I reckon they were nasty The fish have been sitting there for four months in the bottom of the boat. 
Unfortunately, when the boat went ashore, the refrigeration equipment everything went shut down so 
they couldn't keep the fish frozen and it just rotted over  
 
KS  19:43 
You got to do all you can do to get the weight off her so you can float the boat.. So we pumped all night 
long on her. We didn’t smell good the next day though… 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
12 
KS  19:52 
But doing that one though. They asked you to add another one to happen. How long how much longer 
was the Atlantic Breeze?  when did that happen, Atlantic Breeze, when did that happen? A few years 
later, but you and Don which was a foreman for that company that kind of oversaw a lot of the 
maintenance process a lot they got another boat that's just happened to would you want to come up and 
help us? 
 
NS  20:12 
So him and Don went up there and they went there in the local salvage crew was trying to do some work 
but they weren't they weren't there no sense of urgency to get this boat off. They're like we're gonna 
make a deal out of this, we'll make some money off this job. Care less about the crew or the business. 
They just knew that they were gonna get insurance, I'm sure insurance is involved. Well they 
approached captain said look if you don't do something with this boat before tomorrow, because we got 
a bad weather front coming in, if you don't get it on the off the boat off the beach and get up back in the 
Chesapeake Bay you’re liable to lose this boat, or it's gonna be a catastrophic disaster. So they 
convinced him, so him and Don shored up the boat the best they could. 
 
KS  20:52 
What we done is most of them government boats all have water-tight bulkheads stuck in them. So that 
you can’t stop the water in the bottom parts of her. So then the next deck level up, we started sealing her 
off, we pumped the water down that so she’d maintained buoyancy. And if I didn’t know better but I 
pulled her off and she floated deep in the water, but she would float. And we got just her back and we 
helped  get her back to Chesapeake Bay, the next day.  
 
NS  21:13 
How rough was the next day?  
 
KS  21:15 
We got her just getting started into the Chesapeake Bay, and the wind shifted about fifty miles out 
North. It was nasty.  
 
KC  21:22 
No thank you. 
 
JG  21:24 
How big of a boat are we talking? 
 
KS  21:26 
She's probably close to 200 feet long, this boat. 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
13 
KC  21:29 
 And most of the work is on commercial fishing boats? 
 
KS  21:32 
That's all I work on. 
 
NS  21:33 
We've done a few yachts, just a little odds and ends. Some of the local guys ---- 
 
KS  21:38 
you never know one or two of them, I don't mess them around.  
 
NS  21:40 
There -- they look like yachts, but they're charter boats. I mean a lot of your charter boats. Some are 
privately owned by just people, a lot of money that just enjoy doing that. And then some are actually just 
--- that's their livelihood is taking fishing charters everywhere. 
 
KS  21:53 
If you get one spot of fish in her  she quite a boat.  
 
NS  21:56 
So so real particular about them. Yeah, 
 
KC  22:02 
 Rather stick to fishermen? 
 
NS  22:04 
The working class really. 
 
BS  22:06 
So few of them now. I mean if Karen told you any of that, used to be a booming industry here and 
______ 
 
NS  22:15 
There’s very few in each neighborhood. I mean you can probably pick on one hand in each community 
and in Down East area that are full time, totally dependent on the water, on commercial fishermen. 
Some have part time jobs or do certain things time of year but there's just a few that actually that's their- 
One hundred percent of their income is coming from commercial fishing. 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
14 
KS  22:36 
 30, 30 years ago, this time of year or I don't know well, in July in August, they'd be 30 to 40 boats off 
here shrimping nights. Now you know what I've seen and  
 
NS  22:45 
Regulations and.... 
 
KS  22:48 
 Stuff just just it’s just and stuff is just not here anymore. 
 
BS  22:51 
And that's why Neil saw that coming, even though he knew that Kenny had done that most of his life, he 
saw he couldn't support a family on that income. But when he went in the Army Reserves, he was a 
chief engineer on that with the heavy boat company. I don't know if he already told you that. So he 
learned a skill that helped him there and that moved him up. Now are you Warrant Officer Three? 
 
NS  23:17 
yup. [affirmative] 
 
BS  23:18 
And that's what he did. He kept -- they ---he actually went on --- where were you that year, on that trip? 
In that big army boat, had engine malfunction… 
 
NS  23:32 
We were coming back from Puerto Rico right  off of Cuba and lost one engine.  
 
KC  23:37 
What kind of boat was it? 
 
NS  23:38 
It’s a landing craft. 175 foot large landing craft designed to carry rolling, rolling equipment, con-exes  
for ammo, just  
 
BS  23:48 
They took him to Kuwait later on. He was deployed. 
 
NS  23:51 
On one of those boats, we worked in the Persian Gulf, off one of those boats. Just moving --- designed 
for moving cargo logistics, for the over the water for the for the army. 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
15 
BS  24:01 
Did you end up rebuilding the engine? 
 
NS  24:03 
We had a couple emergency repairs we had to do. 
 
KC  24:07 
How big is the engine on that? Like are we talking the size of this room? 
 
NS  24:10 
Well not probably half the height of this room. So probably five foot tall, too and it's roughly 10 to 15 
feet long. With the transmission, 12 and 1250 horse a piece, the boat I was on. We had 6 engines on 
board, propulsion plus generators, emergency generators.  
 
KS:  Enough to keep you busy…. 
 
NS  24:35 
So like what's that like an aircraft carrier is like a floating city This is like like a floating town. We had a 
floating… we had 13 crew on board and that we lived on that boat the whole year. We maintained it and 
just everything from firefighting, to plumbing to we worked on everything on the boat, so I mean it was. 
I've learned a lot so  a lot of trades like one thing that was like what I did with my father is we worked 
on a little bit of everything. 
 
NS  25:07 
And the way the Army's watercraft field mechanics are pretty much the same way the Navy you're 
specialized like a sailor he goes to school for that one particular item like that I guess a recorder right 
there you go to that say I know every part of that widget. I can tell you every part number, I can order it. 
And you can have one it's like an older version of that and he's like yeah, I don't know how to touch that.  
 
NS  25:30 
I was learning theory, like I said before learning theory, and you may not be an expert with that one, but 
you can go to any one of those and say "Okay, I know that the theory behind this widget, I can look at it 
and apply it, make it work." And that's how it is on that boat,  we learn everything from air conditioning 
to refrigeration to hydraulics, diesel mechanic, electrical. So you --- you're a handyman or jack of all 
trades I guess which is to me better than being an expert in one thing because you're you can't you don't 
know how to focus and shift to work on something else. 
 
NS  26:07 
And that's how daddy was working on boats. He could go to any engine someone can say come look at 
this and because he he'd been around so many of them they he applied just an engine an engine to a 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
16 
point and he just work around that and that any other mechanical part on a boat I mean, because being 
on commercial fishermen he worked on all the gear on his own equipment and figure out how it worked 
and then applied it and working with other people's equipment.  
 
NS  26:33 
He'd help other people out because I mean being a commercial --- I think that's, growing up as a 
commercial fishing, and realizing how hard it is, and the struggles the time because you're not always 
making big money. Some minute you're rolling in cash, the next minute you're scraping pennies out 
trying to pay the bills in the wintertime. So he knew the struggles fishermen go through and a lot of 
times he'd just go help him. And then when they got the money or or even to this day he still barters and 
we complain some time I shrug appeal another 20 pounds of shrimp because someone bought some 
shrimp yesterday for working.  
 
NS  27:05 
That's like you go to a restaurant somewhere and like you just pay how much on a plate of shrimp? We 
eat so many of them, we get tired of them. But I mean just working in that kind of industry and 
 
BS  27:17 
They won’t toot their own horn, hardly never. 
 
KC  27:20 
That's why you're here. 
 
BS  27:23 
But Neil, with all that he learned. He bought an older house. when he and his wife, well they weren’t 
even married when he bought it. And he thought they could restore it. I think they ended up keeping 
what, the floor and the roof? 
 
NS  27:36 
 The roof had been replaced back in the 90s. I think that's the only reason we didn’t bulldozer it and we 
were able to….it was an old 1935 house, like old shotgun style. 
 
KS  27:46 
The termites were camped out in it.  
 
NS  27:49 
And we replaced a lot of the wood 
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
17 
BS  27:51 
Kenny had never done carpentry work. Neil hadn't. He had been in the army and then in the Nashville 
diesel college, but Neil did every bit of the electric work. And when the building inspector came, he 
said, Where did you go to school Neil? and he said, I bought a book.  
 
NS  28:06 
Black and Decker electrical.  
 
BS  28:07 
And passed the inspection with flying colors. He did all the electrical work, they did all of his plumbing, 
he put a new air conditioner unit and now he's certified to do? 
 
NS  28:17 
When through the army, I got my EPA where you can. Because you got to have certain certifications to 
buy refrigerant. So I got that. 
 
BS  28:24 
Added 900 square feet to the house.  
 
NS:  We did. 
 
KC  28:27 
Is that where you still live? 
 
BS  28:29 
Yeah, we just did that, few years ago. 
 
NS  28:32 
WE bought the house, and we love the house. It's just a lot of character, a lot of old wooden stuff. And 
we decided to add on to it. But the only way to do it, we had to literally move it. So that's --- I didn't do 
that part. I had had somebody come to the block work and somebody actually lift the house up and move 
it 200 feet on the property, set it back down on the blocks. 
 
NS  28:50 
And then I went in and did the plumbing and finished everything and we moved back in to it. But a bit 
like really anything if you had to pay somebody to do that kind of work. It's more the way you can do 
yourself. Obviously, you save some money. If you've got the time, which I've learned now the older I've 
gotten with kids... times, times a valuable thing as well. 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
18 
BS  29:13 
Still trying to convince Ken but Neil and I get nowhere with that. Because he was a fisherman himself, 
and had to pay for the first few years when he had his own boat. His dad helped him build. He had to 
pay a diesel mechanic and he realized that you know why it was and then when he got into it, a 
breakdown was so expensive – 1000s of dollars and you're missing out by not being able to go out. He's 
always taking that "Well I can't charge him for that, I got an old piece at the shop and I'll go put that on." 
And that's why--- he had --- that's what that book is right there. When he was 55 a surprise birthday 
party for him and I had several people, that he had worked on the boat send us a little card of what it 
meant to them. So that's what the entire book is of people's comments like Matt said, he's dead now ,that 
he quoted a scripture. That man's word is the best you know, in that he was the most honest diesel 
mechanic. He could have made a whole lot more, with that truck in the yard, that old Dodge, that is his 
primary transportation right now because he refuses to buy a decent truck.  
 
NS  30:31 
I forget where we're at now.  
 
KC  30:38 
What's a job or a boat that you were particularly proud of? to work on? Pick one. 
 
KS: There was so many of them, I don’t know what to say.. 
 
NS  30:50 
Trying to think, why don't you tell about…. I know like with working with him probably when I was as 
a kid like  the coolest thing was that, again that Beaufort Menhaden plant in Beaufort, North Carolina. 
That was the, everybody saw that that plant, a lot of the people that moved in,  did complain about the 
smell because it was a unique smell because in our processing the fish, or cooking it and it just --- but 
they'd always if people went down Taylor's Creek, we saw these 200 foot massive ships almost when 
you're a kid they're like huge boats . 
 
NS  31:21 
And telling people yeah, we go down and work on that one was the Gregory Poole and the other one 
was the Coastal Mariner, but they were huge menhaden boats. And there may be a picture of them. I'm 
not sure but one was the converted Minesweeper that they use in the Navy. They had several of those up 
in Virginia and here and the other one was converted oil supply boat.  
 
KS  31:40 
At the gulf.  
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
19 
NS  31:41 
At the gulf. And these things had massive engines, train engines. One of them did. Like to the pistons 
that big around, but just as a kid, right? "Yeah, we worked on that boat." And that's a those boats were 
kind of a thing to say we worked on them. Right anyway. But daddy had worked on some of the other a 
lot of commercial fishing boats. And I don't know he worked on everything. And just one pick one.  
 
BS  32:06 
What was the biggest one? Was that the biggest engine for you?  
 
KS  32:10 
Coastal Mariner, that was the biggest one.  
 
NS: Yeah the biggest ones Coastal Mariner, Yeah, those engines. Yeah. 
 
BS  32:14 
We were at a party, a small dinner on New Year's Eve many years ago. And this guy called him that had 
this big menhaden business in Beaufort. And he says, Kenny, I'm sorry, but I'm in a scrape. He said ----- 
 
KS  32:36 
The place was on fire…. 
 
BS  32:37 
No, the engine broke. 
 
NS  32:39 
The power went out. And the generator went down, right?.  
 
BS  32:42 
He said, I mean, I'm at Morehead at a party, and I've got my good clothes on. He said, I'll find you some 
coveralls but you’ve got to come. We had to leave that party at New Year’s Eve? 
 
KS  32:51 
Was that the party with the power going out? 
 
BS  32:56 
.... and put on his good clothes and things to cover his shoes just to give  
 
NS  33:00 
Like a surgeon getting prepped for it. But uh, yeah, they were that you mentioned earlier about you 
haven't gotten people out of tight spots or situations. That was one of them. I mean, and that plant was 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
20 
up and running, full bore, I mean, they're their processes and then they got these long dryers where 
there's this long pipe what 20-30 foot long, it's got auger in it and turns and fire goes through it.  
 
NS  33:23 
And it's what cooks the meal. When that thing gets so hot and they have to keep it turning and if 
everything shuts down, it just starts warping and getting all it just it can destroy a lot of --- damage a lot 
of equipment. That's why you have backup generators and stuff. Well the backup generator failed and 
they said we need to you here to ……. what’d they do? 
 
KS  33:42 
They turned the steam lose in that plant to try to put that fire out. but what it was once you stop it, that 
mess gets so hot, that heat caught the overhead a fire in there. 
 
NS  33:49 
The ventilation shuts down and everything. 
 
KS  33:50 
 Everything shut down. They will tell you fix the generator so they can get the mess moving again. And 
they just turned live steam lose in there to keep the moisture in there but they liked to  burn the plant 
down. That was the biggest squeal, you can't hear nothing. 
 
NS  34:04 
That plant looks like, in fact, because we've mentioned it like Virginia and the Gulf Coast are Mega 
Proteins, the company now that pretty much owns those fleets. But they have state of the art electronic 
control equipment and there's but like some of the crews would come up here in the wintertime because 
the fish would migrate, a couple fleets, and they come tie up here and it's like, man it's like walking back 
in time. 
 
NS  34:26 
The plant is an old --- it looks like something from the 20s. The 20s and 30s old tin roof wooden 
buildings, kind of dark with everything that was dimmed. Regular incandescent bulbs everywhere, dirt 
floors, 
 
KS  34:43 
Could cook fish though 
 
KC:  and this depresses the fish? 
 
KS  34:46 
Mhm [affirmative] 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
21 
 
KS  34:48 
See what it does, the fish when they catch it. They run it through what they called,. Steam it, and cook 
them boil them down ... 
 
NS  34:56 
...into a mush... 
 
KS  34:57 
...into a mush, then they go through a press. It presses that mess so tightly, it presses the oil out of it. The 
oil goes to a separator, get all the other stuff out of it. What's left of it goes through the dryer and dry it, 
the more it's cooking more they dry it. 
 
NS  35:12 
Almost just like a textured powder. And the press they use is very similar to what a winery would use. 
The equipment. When they go run grapes, three types of press the juices out of it. Same basic concept 
was just large gears and cogs, turn and squeeze it. And they had these huge centrifuges or like the five 
gallon drum spin to separate oil and water or blood. 
 
KC. Sounds pretty gruesome 
 
KS:  It would look just like varnish when it came out of those separators 
 
NS  35:43 
And there would be an old recliner sitting here in the dirt, cobwebs on it, and some old timers, they.... 
There was one man that --- he'd regulate the heater or the furnace. 
 
KS  35:51 
To keep the temperature right 
 
NS  35:52 
And he sits in that recliner beside it, and ever so often, that conveyor coming out, he reaches in and rub 
of it. He can tell the consistency is ...like “Yep.” He got just the… Like now they have state of the art 
thermometers and gauges, and he just takes his hand rub it and it felt right. If it weren't quite the 
consistency, he'd go make adjustments.  
 
KS  36:08 
You'd think like he was asleep, but every once in a while, he’d take his hand and draw it through 
[laughter] 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
22 
NS  36:12 
 When I was a kid walking through that place, it's like ... 
 
BS  36:15 
That whole business now, it's gone. It's leveled and it's  
 
NS  36:18 
...34 Degrees... 
 
BS  36:20 
...residential, housing development in Beaufort on the waterfront. 
 
NS  36:24 
There's a large restaurant and a Boathouse. They used to call it the Boathouse, but --- here in Beaufort, 
large restaurant and everything out on the water. But yeah, that was the .... 
 
KS  36:35 
It was gone in our lifetime though 
 
JG  36:36 
Kenny, do you feel nostalgic for the old days? Do you feel nostalgic  
 
KS  36:41 
Oh, oh yeah. I love the old days. 
 
JG  36:43 
What do you miss?  
 
KS  36:47 
Stuff just like that, talking to the crowd. There was always a crowd of people you could talk to. You 
don't see that no more. 
 
NS  36:56 
And you don't talk to people. That's the only place you'd see old people  
 
KS  36:59 
See that old man with his hand.. You don't see that stuff no more. 
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
23 
NS  37:02 
No. Something simple as, like going to the local convenience store. When I was a kid I mean I barely 
remember, but after dinnertime, especially summertime that people would be sitting outside their cars, at 
the store, just talking, just socializing. Well now everybody takes their phone. You don't --- that's not 
there anymore. You know the socializing and community. People coming from work they go to their 
houses and shut the doors, you don't you don't see anybody anymore. 
 
KC  37:25 
That's what's been so hard in COVID because you missed like festivals or you know, community 
gatherings where you do get to talk to each other 
 
KS  37:34 
Most people don't even go to the fish house. There was always a crowd of people there. Now they don’t 
gather anymore in places like that. 
 
NS  37:41 
 I've even noticed like not being I see like I went to the local boat supplies place in Beaufort the other 
day to pick some stuff up, and it ran into a man that used to, we'd always see him on a regular basis 
when I'd go to one of the fish houses to talk. And I didn't recognize him since it's been long so I've seen 
him.  
 
NS  37:57 
He's like, “ hey how are you doing?” “ I',m like good, good yeah,” trying to think, "who is this?" Yeah 
how's your wife, how's dad, or parents, doing good? On his way out? I was like maybe that wasn't... I 
had to ask him that evening was that someone-so? Yeah, okay, I thought it was, I just wanted to know 
for sure. But don't, you don't see him as much, you take it for granted. Because you’d always go like 
we're going to Gary Smiths, and sit there and shoot the breeze for a few minutes, before we go to work. 
 
NS  38:22 
We'd always sit there and take breaks and talk to the crowd and get back to work for a while to come 
and eat lunch with them. But you always saw these different people and you don't--- especially self 
employed because you're always--- that kind of line of work because you're always going different 
places, you see all these different people, whereas you work on an assembly line somewhere or on base, 
you see the same people every single day. That's your small group of people, which is your friends for 
the most part, you you become a family there but you're kind of restricted just to right there. Where that 
kind of job kind of like the UPS man or the bread man, where he's going all these different places he 
makes point always talking to different people. That's how --- he'd always go to different places and talk 
to everybody.  
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
24 
JG  39:01 
Were you keeping up on the gossip too? 
 
NS  39:03 
 Yeah. Gossip, what the boats are doing. You always talk to this fish house, say how you all doing? Or 
how's everything going until so and so catch something this where do you go the other fish out there. So 
he like you get that intermix of like they're rivalry fishing groups, but he'd be able like the . He'd go in 
between the different fish houses and talk to people because. 
 
KC  39:21 
You're like, a neutral... you can go to any place and they were just happy to see you. 
 
KS:  You just didn’t trade secrets 
 
NS  39:27 
Yeah, cuz everybody needed him to work on the boats. And he could ... 
 
KS  39:31 
Went away mad.  
 
NS  39:33 
It was a time that was it was kind of comical to hear some of the conversations. There was one story. 
He'd fixed the engine, or is in the process of rebuilding the engine on one of the boats. And 
unfortunately, sometimes parts can be hard to get and they're waiting for a day or two like, yeah, the 
parts not gonna be here for another couple of days. Well, the fish house right across the creek, the rival 
kind of a rivalry deal. The trawler was coming in. It was loaded down with fish, like to boards, a full 
load. 
 
KS  40:02 
They've been doing it for three, four days,  
 
NS  40:04 
Three or four days in a row, because that's another thing about the commercial fitness industry. When 
your boats broke down, not only are you having the expensive repairs, but all the money you're losing, 
because you're not on the fishing grounds. Well, the boat goes by and says, Kenny, is there any way we 
can make that engine run without that part?  
 
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
25 
NS  40:20 
He's like, “Well Yeah, she’ll work. But I mean, for I mean, I don't know if you're really going to 
jeopardize anything. But if you good with me fixing it, yeah, it’ll run without it. Do you what you got to 
do.” That evening had it all patched up, that he headed out. And I never put the part back in, because it 
was, it was a part that weren't that critical. But daddy wanted to put it just like it was I mean, factory 
specs and. And all that. But yeah, that was it was like is there anything you do to get this thing going 
right now?  
 
BS:  He couldn’t stand to see the other boat 
 
KS  40:50 
In fact I never did put it in, when it come he sent it back. It was, what was called an after-cooler. It 
cooled the air in the engines. The way he ran them, it really wasn’t that critical a part, so he didn’t put it 
in her. 
 
KC  41:03 
Do people…Like, is there a benefit to keeping an old diesel engine running versus getting a new one? 
 
NS  41:12 
A lot. 
 
KS  41:13 
Yeah, a lot.  
 
KC  41:14 
Can you talk --- tell us why? 
 
KS  41:15 
Well price wise, 
 
NS  41:16 
Expense. 
 
KS  41:18 
You can buy an old Detroit somewhere for three, four-thousand dollars. You go buy something 
compatible in today's market? You're looking for 75 or hundred thousand.  
 
NS  41:25 
Think of it like this, this is an analogy. You take like a 1989 Honda Civic or 1990 Honda Civic, or 2001 
Honda Civic. You can go to any junkyard, you go to eBay and go anywhere and find anything you need 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
26 
for that old one. Now as efficient to the gas motor is quite the same as it is diesel. I mean, it's just with 
so many regulations, now. The requirements for new engines, the prices are thru the roof, the parts are 
through the roof.  
 
NS  41:53 
Yes, they might burn a little bit cleaner, maybe and it might be a little bit more efficient. But as the 
efficiency, you're getting worse. The expense it is to maintain it. When you take an older engine that 
everybody has in her backyard or you can go to any junk yard or any boat yard and get spare parts for it. 
So yeah, a lot. The older technology is still used a lot with the working class just because it's easier to 
maintain and keep going.  
 
KS  42:19 
Another thing I say who is running these engines. Most of them don't do much preventive maintenance.  
 
NS  42:24 
A lot of your newer stuff is more critical maintenance---- 
 
KS  42:27 
They'd rather break them, than fix them. And these new engines won't do that 
 
KC  42:32 
 How long have you seen an engine last? 
 
KS  42:39 
 Oh, I don’t know I’ve seen some of them run 100,000 hours, local generators and stuff  
 
KC:  How old would that be …. 
 
NS  42:43 
How many years do we figure? 
 
KS  42:45 
I know a generator will run 19 years.  
 
NS  42:48 
We did the math. 
 
KS  42:50 
 100,00 miles on her... She run pretty much all the time. See a lot of engines can get 20,000  hours on 
them and stuff like that.. That’s a long time. 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
27 
 
KC  43:05 
You measure in an hour? 
 
NS  43:08 
Some engines, because they're stationary. Or it's hard to--- like a car you got an odometer, you measure 
miles with. But a boat, unless they keep track ---- because the boats aren't necessarily traveling all the 
time, they'll be going slow so everything is done through hours. And some of the generators I can't 
figure, I figured it was probably, some of those boats of Homer’s {Smith} they didn't have shore power 
say ran, what? Probably 350 days? 
 
KS  43:34 
Probably 250 days a year.  
 
NS  43:35 
250 days a year, or 6000 times a year, how many years you run? 
 
KS  43:42 
Like 19 years. 
 
NS  43:43 
 19. That's over 100 -- 114,000 hours, a year. Over 100,000 hours. And some of your higher 
performance engines, if they’re lucky get 20,000 hours or 10,000 hours  
 
KS  43:55 
You take some of the yacht engines and the high-performance engines, you’re looking at 3 or 4000 
hours, some of them have a different life on them. 
 
NS  44:01 
 They go fast, they just don't go as far. You take a working class engine, a Mercer, they're D rated and 
they're designed for the long run.  
 
KS  44:08 
That’s the reason I don’t work on yachts.  
 
NS  44:09 
So yeah you can you can get a bad name, 
 
KS  44:11 
...you don't get a warranty. 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
28 
 
NS  44:13 
 You can't warranty. Like you can go fix this engine and somebody that hot rod that runs it hard and 
doesn't last very long. Well he didn't do it right and see but you take a commercial engine and you fix it 
right and it’ll last a long time. So it's hard to — Even though, your company doesn't provide much of a 
warranty for a really high output engine, because they know that the life of an engine like that is not 
very long. 
 
KC  44:37 
And with fish, commercial fishermen, you don't have to teach them how to use it, right? They’re good 
stewards…... 
 
KS  44:43 
Most of them don't spend a lot of time in the engine room. They’ll check the oil once while, and change 
the filters but they're usually just run on well or what they normally need to. 
 
NS  44:53 
There's a big difference between a personally owned boat or a company boat. The person that owns his 
own trawler and owns his own and takes care of his own stuff. He knows the ins and outs he changes the 
oil, he monitors.... They are like, yep, it started burning up more oil than usual, I had to put a little extra 
oil. They just know something's not right, for it just sound a little different.  
 
NS  45:14 
Or somebody works for a company. It's not his boat, a lot of times there's no pride in it. And they may if 
you like it, go check on oil and water for the --- for the week. Because some of these trawlers when they 
leave on a Sunday, for especially when the shrimping bottom. They leave Sunday morning around eight 
o'clock. And those engines and generators run until like Friday around lunchtime, because they'd get 
underway and they stayed gone and come back.  
 
NS  45:37 
And some of them would maybe go check, usually on a company boats, one personal boat might be 
assigned as "Hey, you're the maintenance guy and go check." But a lot of them --- and with the 
dependability of the crews. Years ago, I mean, you can make a good living and a lot of crews {Kenny 
mumble something to Neil} 
 
NS  46:00 
The demographic of the working class in these boats has changed a lot in the past 30 years. 30 years ago, 
like I said, you'd like to make a living for your family. Best way to put it but without offending or a lot 
of times now, a lot of people that have drug problems or can't get jobs anywhere else. They don't have to 
take drug test. There --- they can do manual labor, but unfortunately there's such a shortage of captains 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
29 
and stuff. And some of these guys that were--- you wouldn't even want for a deck hand, are now 
captains, and you can, you can definitely see it.  
 
NS  46:37 
I mean you got some of these boats, that --- they can't keep it running for a week without tearing 
something up because they don't care and the owners of the boats, and the fleets are struggling trying to 
get people to run them. They'll fire them, one month later, they'll hire them back and don't talk about it. 
 
KS  46:52 
It’s okay to let them have boats- to work in and but don’t let them in their car to go across the street.  
 
NS  46:55 
Take a couple hundred-thousand-dollar trawler, you wanna send him out for a week, to go try to make 
money for you. But if he's asking, if you if he’d asked you to let him use his car to go to the grocery 
store, …. 
 
KC  47:06 
That’s scary.  
 
KS  47:06 
And that’s not just here, that’s all up and down the coast, too. 
 
NS  47:10 
And unfortunately, some of the maintenance some of the engine problems they do have is just neglect, 
because they don't care. Unfortunately, I'm sure that’s in a lot of in other industries as well, besides just 
the commercial fishing industry. 
 
KC  47:25 
Are there any female boat captains out there? 
 
KS  47:27 
Not in this area right here. There’s some around, in the other places, but not not necessarily. Because 
they’re smarter than us. 
 
KC  47:36 
It’s hard work. 
 
KS  47:38 
They’re just smarter. 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
30 
NS  47:40 
I know in Manteo or Hatteras, there might be some girls run boats and stuff. I'm talking to think in this 
area, who actually ever did… 
 
KS  47:46 
I saw one  the other day on television in Hatteras was fishing and somewhere up there. 
 
KC  47:53 
Kenny do you still work on an engine, every once in a while? 
 
KS  47:59 
Oh yea! I was going to work this morning but it rained. 
 
NS  48:00 
Too much. I try get him to slow down but. 
 
KC  48:03 
And do you still give him a hand? 
 
NS  48:05 
I try. It’s been a while but um, I still work on engines and stuff through work on my work and my own 
stuff. Yeah, if he needs a hand sometimes, then I've helped him. My new job —- I did have, I used to 
work at the Army Reserve Center in Morehead, in Morehead city. When that's what we did. We were 
marine machinery mechanics and we maintain the fleet of Army boats. 
 
NS  48:32 
And our work schedule used to be four tens, so like every Monday I'd have off. So that Monday was 
always most of the time if they didn’t have kids or whatnot. If he had a job that he had to go somewhere, 
and needed the extra hand, I’d go help him. But now our schedules changed, so I get every other Friday 
or Friday off. And I've been trying to work on the boat. I got a boat I’ve been trying to redo. Fiberglass, 
hulled boat, I’ve just completely regutted, redid, and try and in the finishing stages, trying to finish it. 
And just in time, but he's been helping with that and occasionally And so yeah, still still doing boat 
work. Just can't get away from it. Enjoy it.  
 
KC  49:14 
Is there a — do you have a different feeling about working on an army boat versus working on a fishing 
boat? 
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
31 
NS  49:23 
Um, not — it's all about the same because for me, You’re working on something that someone depends 
on. An army boat yeah, you might be put in harm's way with whatever the situation is, but you're also 
working on the commercial fishing boat, that he's got to have that, he depends on that. And you don't 
want a failure, when it's — because most time when stuff goes wrong, it’s usually when the worst 
situation. When it's 50 mile an hour wind and 20-foot seas and do I want to do something half assed for 
this person just to get done with it? 
 
NS  49:55 
So I've always had that rep- or philosophy that I'm working on, just like it's mine. I’m not just going to 
try to just— I don't know , say here's go. Because you don't want that to fail. Anything that's in your 
hands, you don't want to be responsible for the failure. It could be something else. But you wouldn't 
know what at the end of the day that I put this together and to the best of my ability that when it goes 
out, it weren't because  I didn't do what I could to try to fix it. So 
 
KC  50:20 
It’s a real sense of service too. I mean, you know, obvious with the army, but when you're fixing, 
especially the personal owned fishing boats, you know, their livelihood. 
 
NS  50:33 
They depend on them, when they head out the inlet.  Take someone like Elbert. How old’s he now? 
He’s, 
 
KS  50:41 
….78…? 
 
NS  50:42 
He still works offshore at the Cape. Cape Lookout. He gets on that boat, starts her up, and daddy does all 
his work for him. And when he wants to be able to, he knows that someone like dad worked on it. It’s  
about as dependable  as it can be for his work. So 
 
KC  50:59 
Go ahead, Barbara.  
 
BS  51:02 
Neil's actually re-building a pleasure boat of his own right now, that was built what year? 
 
NS  51:07 
It’s a 1980 Sea Ox, which they were boats that were built in this era of fiberglass hulled boats. Which 
they started out the reputation of being a heavy built, commercial boat, a lot of your Waterman that 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
32 
worked on fishing crab pots in that line of work, were dependent on that. They have a good reputation 
and it’s a good riding boat. I bought it years ago and used it, and decided to restore, right. 
 
NS  51:32 
Because obviously that type of boat, there'll be a lot of fiberglass, but also supported wooden structures 
inside where the fiberglass lays in it. Well, that wood rots so you have to redo it and so completely 
redoing it just for one. And I don’t know if you’ve heard the price of boats, but boats are not cheap. 
 
KC  51:51 
I can't afford them. 
 
NS  51:53 
Boats are expensive…This is a 23-foot boat. 
 
BS  51:55 
He’s been working on it for over a year. 
 
NS  51:58 
Trying weekends, evenings, whenever we don't have softball practice for the girls it's out the yard 
working on it. And it's an old boat it's not a history, in character because those boats were built years 
ago. Like the boat is actually a month older than I am, because there's a there was a date stamp in one of 
the parts and it was like a month where I was born. I was like, it's kind of cool. 
 
KC  52:22 
What do you think it'll be on the water? 
 
NS  52:23 
Shhhhh 
 
BS  52:25 
His wife’s going to leave him first. [Laughter] 
 
NS  52:28 
Hopefully, by the end of the summer, I'm going to at least test run if everything goes well. But just 
there's so much because 
 
KS  52:33 
We did put a diesel engine back in it, it has a gas motor in it, put diesel back in it. 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
33 
NS  52:37 
When you start something like that, it's one thing to just fix some minor repair. When you completely 
redo it, you’ve got every system on the boat, you're installing. Center console boat, but like all your 
mechanical parts, electrical parts, everything from the time you start the engine up, to the throw the lines 
off the cleats… 
 
NS  52:55 
I mean, everything's been reinstalled or redone. So this is a lot of work. But you know, at the end of the 
day is, you take some pride in it and it’s something you did.. 
 
KC  53:04 
Are you able to do that all yourself or do you have to call in friends and stuff? 
 
NS  53:09 
Um, I've done I've done it pretty much all myself. YouTube videos, other people that, uh, are in that line 
of work, I'll pick their brains and try to get you just just don't go to one person. So how do you do this? 
You get to this person, how do you do that? And you kind of collaborate all their ideas and like figuring 
out well I like it this way, but but you get their opinions and it makes sense, certain reasons why people 
do certain things. 
 
NS  53:36 
And then you just gather all the information and decide to do what you do. And fiberglass is interesting 
art. 
 
KS  53:45 
That’s what I hear from Google 
 
NS  53:47 
But yeah, that's one one good thing about some of the technologies we have now is, that much 
information is at your fingertips now. You can research and read. 
 
KS  53:56 
By the time you get somebody’s already had it  
 
NS  53:58 
Yeah. 
 
KC  53:59 
But people like — you don't —- you're not on YouTube? 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
34 
KS  54:04 
Oh yeah I go on there, and look   
 
NS  54:06 
You don’t make YouTube videos. 
 
KS  54:07 
Oh, no, no. 
 
NS  54:12 
For one, we just have put the subtitles down at the bottom. 
 
KC  54:16 
So Kenny, this says in this book that Barbara just handed me, it says you made the biggest Shrimp haul 
ever made in Core Sound, close to 10,000 pounds. The record still stands today. Is that still true? 
 
NS  54:26 
Yeah. And one, one night. 
 
JG  54:30 
How did that haul go? 
 
KS  54:31 
 It was very interesting. 
 
JG  54:35 
You’re so understated!  
 
NS  54:39 
Yeah, that was a sometime in the 70s. 
 
JG  54:44 
Woah! 
 
NS  54:44 
There’s been some close ones that that's caught that much more and more in a few days. But like that 
was like one night's work. 
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
35 
JG  54:49 
I can see why you get tired of shrimp if you're getting 10,000 pounds at a time. Yeah, this is a bigger 
version of this picture. 
 
NS  54:59 
Like Forrest Gump. [crosstalk] 
 
NS  55:04 
It was funny, cause when I was in boot camp, when I was in boot camp, I was telling where I was — one 
of the …. 
 
KS  55:10 
….I’m in better shape than I am now.  [crosstalk] 
 
JG  55:12 
It’s a good view of you. 
 
KS  55:15 
It’s funny there’s grass in it, I’m pulling the grass out of it.  
 
NS  55:18 
With the Dickies on. With those old Dickies work pants with the boots on. 
 
KC  55:24 
How much did you get for 10,000 pounds of shrimp? 
 
KS  55:27 
37 cents. 
 
KC  55:28 
A pound. 
 
NS  55:29 
Yeah. Now they're What? $2? 3$ 
 
KS  55:32 
That’s 1974, now. 
 
NS  55:34 
When fuel was how much? 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
36 
 
KS  55:35 
 The waist of that boat she’s two foot deep, that's how deep across her 
 
NS  55:38 
How much was fuel then? 
 
KS  55:40 
I don’t know, 25-30 ¢? 
 
NS  55:43 
I was in a bootcamp, home. Like shrimp and stuff, and I was — my fellow soldiers. I was telling them, 
where I came from, live on coast and stuff. He's like, you mean like Forrest Gump? Yeah. Yeah. It's like 
Bubba Gump. Yeah. You eat all kinds of shrimp. 
 
KC  55:57 
And then, Neil are you pretty committed to staying in this area? 
 
NS  56:01 
I am, yeah.. I mean that's one reason I did the reserves, and not active duty. I was 23 when I went in and 
I had no desire to leave. I've I've enjoyed traveling seeing the world different places. But it's hard to beat 
this area. So yeah, I have no no plans on leaving. I don't mind traveling occasionally.  
 
NS  56:28 
And hopefully, well, depends on what my daughters what to do. I understand completely if they want to 
go other places and I'd like for them to want to come back here eventually. But also, you're more well 
rounded. You don't want to be in the fishbowl effect, where you're just, you're stuck in one spot all your 
life.  
 
NS  56:41 
I mean, you need to go and see the world, gives you a better appreciation. But no, I definitely enjoy 
staying here, as of right now. As long as it doesn't change. I know everything changes some. But like to 
the point that it's --- the tourist industry has kind of affected a lot of things in other areas, you've seen in 
other places. So we’re hoping it doesn’t get that bad.  
 
NS  57:06 
As bad as I hate hurricanes, they kinda keep some of the traffic out of here. Because you mentioned 
hurricanes and went ~~~~~. They don’t want to stay, but ____ 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
37 
KC  57:14 
Actually that brings up a good point. Does a Hurricane ….. 
 
BS  57:18 
Now Neil when he was [crosstalk] What year did you did the menhaden ? 
 
NS  57:30 
1983. 
 
BS  57:31 
And he's always worked. Always been a hard worker. 
 
NS  57:35 
I said the the work ethic I learned from my father, my grandfather's is .... 
 
BS  57:40 
[crosstalk] But that's one of his pictures today. He got Warrant Officer of the year in the Army. What 
year was that? We had to get a regalia. 
 
NS  57:52 
13, I think. 
 
KC  57:53 
Is that your wife? 
 
NS  57:54 
That's my sister, she's in the Navy reserves.  
 
KC  57:59 
Oh yeah, she's the one that has her own boat. 
 
NS  58:01 
Yeah, we kind of did the same thing. Like what she does on the civilian side, what she does as an 
industrial hygienist, where she goes like to the shops and checks to make sure everybody's hearing 
protection right, and they're breathing apparatus and stuff. There's the same job in the Navy, so she went 
the Navy reserves on the same thing. That’s how I pretty much I did the same work being a mechanic. I 
mean you're familiar with it, you just as well. Some people do totally different. Some people's reserve 
jobs are totally different from their civilian jobs. I enjoy it because you're getting more proficient once 
you do by .... 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
38 
KC  58:37 
I was going to ask, do any of your repairs come up because of hurricane related damage? Like where do 
people even put their boats on a big storm coming through? 
 
KS  58:48 
Anywhere they can find them a hole to put them in. Some put them on the shore, some put them inland. 
 
[Phone rings] 
 
NS  58:56 
There are some of the boat yards here that they'll pick them up with travel lifts, and secure them on 
shore. Some will get to the head of creeks and tie them up. Some will just go, they'll just get out of 
harm's way and go several 100 miles to the north or to the south or windstorm, depending on what kind 
of boat it is.  
[phone rings again] 
 
KS  59:14 
That’s a telemarketer wanting to sell something.  
 
NS  59:18 
You've worked on some boats though, well I say. There are some of them that had been ... 
 
KS  59:21 
There's had some that had been sunk, you know and go get the water out of them stuff like that, you 
know? Give them a good pump. 
 
NS  59:27 
 Some that had sunk, some that had just water damage, where it rained. So much rain it's raining down 
the exhaust of the engine and they went to start the engine and they 
 
KS: Then rods stood in them 
 
NS: engine damage because, like I said, physics, you can't compress a liquid.  
 
NS  59:39 
The biggest water problem we ever done, that was on Gregory Poole, that menhaden boat. They came 
out of the Intracoastal, come by Radio Island and run over a steel piling and punched a hole in her. They 
made it as far as Front Street in Beaufort, sunk right in the waterway.  
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
39 
NS  59:54 
And flooded the engine room. 
 
KS  59:55 
Water run nine-foot-deep in her engine room. 
 
NS  59:59 
Flooded the whole engine compartment. 
 
KS  1:00:00 
Honey she was a little full.. They finally got our pump back up we've already got the engine, we 
restarted them after that.  
 
KC  1:00:07 
Wow. That seems like reviving the dead. 
 
KS  1:00:12 
It was.  It was, that was a big job. 
 
NS  1:00:14 
He's recovered quite a few engines that’s been, or revived a few engines that have been sunk. Just flush 
them out, crank them over, get them cleaned up. 
 
KS  1:00:23 
You gotta do, you gotta do quick. If they lay very long, they pit. 
 
KC  1:00:26 
They pit, like the salt? 
 
KS  1:00:27 
They start rusting inside, so you gotta do what you’re gotta do quick, with them. 
 
NS  1:00:31 
Take a few days, if not -- well there's polished machine surfaces, start etching.  
 
KS  1:00:37 
You gotta start getting oil back in them, run them, draw it out. Doesn't take very long to play with that. 
 
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
40 
KC  1:00:47 
Are the things, are there things that you do living in this community, to care for it? Like think, all the 
change that you've seen and it's vulnerable because of tourism and hurricanes, and ... 
 
KS  1:01:02 
 No, we done all our work to the church. Our church or Barbara's church got severely damaged in the 
storm. It's flooded seven inches of water in the bottom of it and blew roof off of it, and flooded 
everything else on top of it. We've done a lot of carpenter work. 
 
NS  1:01:15 
He does, still does, a lot of work for the local family-owned ferry business that takes people over to the 
Outer Banks. Alger’s has been in business since what, the 60s? 
 
NS  1:01:27 
The 60s. [affirmative] 
 
NS  1:01:28 
And they got one charter, or one ferry boat now, but that the boat was built back mid 80s and he's helped 
maintain that boat whenever they have a problem. Because like again another trade that when --- the 
engine, when you're down, you've got all these customers that need a ride and it backs up and they can't 
afford to have a breakdown. So they try to do all the work they can in the wintertime; maintenance and 
upkeep.  
 
NS  1:01:52 
So in the middle of the busy season everything's running, running good. But...  
 
KS  1:01:56 
They still have their problems.  
 
NS  1:01:57 
There's still many problems that happen. 
 
KC  1:01:59 
How do you bring all your tools everywhere? Just one tiny toolbox? 
 
KS  1:02:05 
He probably puts the thing on the ... 
 
NS  1:02:07 
He's got a work truck keeps a lot of stuff in 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
41 
 
KS  1:02:09 
... the big stuff in the truck ... 
 
NS  1:02:10 
and he has a tool box. 
 
KC  1:02:12 
Are there any very specialized tools? What's what's a tool that's really --- you only find in your trade? 
 
NS  1:02:21 
Pretty much depends on what you're gonna work on. Like you're going to pull the liners out of the 
engine? 
 
KS  1:02:24 
 Certain pullers...  
 
NS  1:02:25 
Certain pullers and stuff like that. 
 
NS  1:02:26 
And some of the components that are and pressed inside the engines, have to be pulled out and you got 
to have certain contraption to go in, with threaded rods and pull these parts out. We just can't take a 
hammer and start beating on it. I've seen some stuff so it makes certain tools. A lot of tools he's made 
over the years just especially tools that you can fabricate, I mean he fabricated all kinds of different tools 
of the lathe or weld parts together to make a tool that looks almost identical to the factory owned tool 
that's 1000s of dollars some of them and he's been able to make them  
 
KC  1:02:59 
Probably works better too. 
 
NS  1:03:01 
Some of them yeah.  
 
NS  1:03:01 
I told him, he should make a patent for it, but never did. 
 
KC  1:03:05 
Do you have a little welder setup? 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
42 
NS  1:03:07 
No, I got a torch. Yeah, I got a shop out back that I work in. 
 
KC  1:03:12 
Okay we'll have to go see that. 
 
BS  1:03:15 
You'll want your boots on. On a dry day.  
 
KS  1:03:18 
It's filled up with water right now. 
 
NS  1:03:22 
Yeah, we joke he's got a little bit of hoarder in him.  
 
KS:   It’s full 
 
KC  1:03:26 
You never know what you're gonna need, right? 
 
NS  1:03:32 
In his line of work, in his past, the type of stuff he did, I understand why you save some stuff. But... 
 
BS  1:03:38 
That is one of the things they’ve always got along so well. Even as a toddler. He's always admired days, 
the one thing . 
 
NS  1:03:50 
I hate seeing him work outside when he's got a large shop and it just solid full of stuff that he's 
accumulated over the years. I use the analogy I use the analogy of a squirrel at least leaves a space in the 
tree for himself. Like he packs the nuts in it for the winter. He just he works in the yard it's like you're 
almost 70 years old. You can’t even get a bicycle in the shop, now, to change the tire on it. Well now I 
work out here , so it's like well right, I can't argue with you. Can't argue with him but I just hate to see 
him work --- like this morning, he can't work because it was raining. 
 
BS  1:04:20 
He's got a huge shop that --- he had a boat in it one time, where his father built a shop to put his 18 
wheelers in there to maintain them, because his father had a huge sea food business with trawlers and 
trucks and they ship seafood all over the country. And then that's what the shop was built for and now 
you literally can't get by saying I don't like to go out there. It's a sore sight 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
43 
 
NS  1:04:44 
That's the hardest thing -- or not hard thing, but something that he couldn't have handled if he went 
working for the government.  
 
BS  1:04:50 
[crosstalk] For example, the worst example... 
 
KC  1:04:51 
Was is the army that taught you how to be clean and organized? 
 
NS  1:04:55 
 Yeah. And like the government just throws if they don't save anything, just throw it all the way. They're 
always spending money, but I told him it was a fine line. You've got to save stuff or to be able to fix 
people but 
 
KS  1:05:06 
Well there's a lot of old engines, you can't find parts for. 
 
NS  1:05:08 
You have to throw some away. 
 
KS  1:05:11 
Yeah there's not many days you're gonna get a part off something…..  
 
NS  1:05:15 
Yeah um I've used a lot of the parts off the old stuff out there but yeah that's on my side. 
 
KS  1:05:18 
Ask him where his boat motor come from... 
 
 
NS  1:05:20 
Put it, in, put it outside. I mean there stuff --- what the problem is it got flooded in Floyd. Not Floyd, but 
Florence. A lot of stuff got salt water in it so a lot of ____. 
 
NS  1:05:30 
You can still save it but it's inside the shop, just like this stuff. Rains not gonna hurt this stuff. Throw it 
in the yard, then you can use your shop. But he hasn't took the time to do it. But he’s got a lot going on.  
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
44 
BS  1:05:41 
One of the things that irritates me so bad so I do it now, when he's not around. He has an electric 
toothbrush. So, the toothbrush, I don’t know if you have one but, when you change the heads, there's a 
magnet in them. He'll come in and he’ll say, ‘you changed the head on my toothbrush’ I said yeah.I 
ordered a new one.   
 
KS:  You don’t know how valuable a tool that is. 
 
BS:  He said, “What did you do with that other one?”  I threw it in the trashcan.  
 
KS  1:06:06 
You don’t know how much you could pick up with that magnet. It's usable. 
 
BS  1:06:09 
It's insane!  
 
KC  1:06:11 
I mean if more people thought like you would probably wouldn't have so much environmental waste. 
 
NS  1:06:14 
Yeah, we wouldn't. 
 
KC   But we, all of us would also have a shed full of ….. 
 
 KS   It’s all junk but everyone that comes there wants junk. 
 
NS  1:06:22 
There's, there's a fine line.  
 
KC  1:06:24 
I love junk. I'm with you. I can’t wait to see it. 
 
KS 1:06:27 
It's all junk until you need it. 
 
NS  1:06:31 
I've thrown a few things away but  
 
KS  1:06:33 
...that's a Detroit graveyard is what it is…....  
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
45 
 
NS  1:06:35 
Eventually it just comes over me, I'm like, okay, I'll save it, save it..., at one point, alright, just throw it 
away, start over with some stuff. But, sure enough. 
 
KS:  It’s not like that 
 
NS:  A month later you’ll need it. 
 
BS  1:06:42 
There's a guy at the high school, that teaches what, what's it called now industry? Something. 
 
NS  1:06:50 
Who's that? 
 
BS  1:06:51 
Zach. What does he teach?  Marine something,  
 
NS:  He’s in marine vocations 
 
BS:  He brought a busload of his students down, the other day right to that shop and Ken came home to 
me, and was telling me about it, I said, “no he didn't.” 
 
NS  1:07:01 
When'd he do that?. When he came and got it? What'd, they say like what?  
 
KS  1:07:08 
Well, what it was is he wanted an old engine. He put it in that shop, to teach them boys more hands-on 
stuff.  
 
 
 
NS  1:07:12 
That's a good idea.  
 
KS:  I got one there I'll give you. It's a complete engine. You could probably run her.   you know, if you 
hook her up, “be right there!” So, he came to hook it, and load the truck with her. So now he's got 
something to work with.  
 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
46 
NS  1:07:24 
So, it’s a engine graveyard.  Which I mean, it is fine. If you've got the space, which I'm totally with them 
on, saving stuff. But you got to have a place to work. So that's enough. No. But yeah, but by able to do 
that he has helped a lot of people out my "Yeah, I've got that part right here," because if they had to buy 
that part. Or if they had to even find the part, that costs an astronomical amount of money to get it. So, 
he's got it. And so, I mean, I just told him, ‘Well, maybe we need to go on eBay or Craigslist and just 
sell used parts.’ 
 
BS  1:07:59 
I got a picture of him sitting in the Battery in San Diego, a few years ago, we went to my brother's 
daughter's wedding. And he's talked, telling somebody, there's no way I can get there tonight I'm sorry, I 
can't. I'm in San Diego. He said, "What the hell are you doing in San Diego?" 
 
NS  1:08:10 
Who was that? 
 
BS  1:08:10 
Who was it Kenny? 
 
BS  1:08:14 
That's all the time. They ‘ll just call, trying to – ‘You got to help me.! You got to help me!’.  But I can't, 
I'm not there! 
 
KC  1:08:20 
Neil and Barbara. Are there, like -- what should we ask Kenny that maybe we haven't asked? 
 
NS  1:08:31 
Trying to think about other things.  
 
KC  1:08:33 
Something else to brag on? 
 
BS:  He won’t say anything about himself. 
 
NS  1:08:38 
How'd you -- what was the first the engine, you rebuilt? That you remember like. 
 
BS  1:08:46 
For Christmas, the got him, had all the running parts but they said he had it together. Well, what? That 
night? 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
47 
 
NS  1:08:53 
What was the first engine you fixed for somebody? The first paid customer? Who was the first time  
 
KS  1:08:58 
That was too far back to remember. 
 
NS  1:08:59 
You ought to remember I mean, the first thing is I think I put that the other night and actually ran for 
some I was Steve, Steve Lewis. One day after I put the head back on and earned it myself. I was trying 
to think the first time you put an engine together for somebody, and actually charged them.  
 
[Phone rings, Kenny answers] 
 
BS  1:09:16 
He lives too much in the past. He loves history, he loves to talk to his crowd. But his father just passed 
away three weeks ago. And for the past two years.... he’s helped take care of him actually.  
 
NS  1:09:36 
Every morning and every night. 
 
KS [on phone]  1:09:37 
Do what now? 
 
BS  1:09:37 
And because he is self-employed, he was able to do it every morning every single morning at 8:30, we'd 
go over there and help him get out of the bed, get him in the wheelchair, and roll him to his recliner. 
And every night at 8:30 got him out. Got him on a bedside commode.  Put him back in his wheelchair 
and brought back him to his bed. [Cross talk phone conversation] 
 
 
BS    We’ve had a stressful past two years. He did have heart surgery in 2012 to repair a leaky valve. 
But they’re amazed when he goes to the doctors.  He's treated by a group of doctors in Greenville at the 
heart center. That when he goes in, he can sit everybody laughs about the way he sits. He crosses his leg 
and sits. He is in great physical shape except for that part except for that heart issue and stress makes it 
worse.  
 
BS  1:10:32 
Neil gets on him.  He's 69 he still wants to.  
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
48 
NS:  
 
BS   He bends like a pretzel under the _______ 
 
KC  1:10:40 
I saw when he signed the form, squiggling under our microphone stand.  
 
NS  1:10:48 
He has helped a lot of people over the years doing different things on people being a bind.  
 
BS  1:10:52 
And then after the hurricane, our church that got flooded from the bottom. We had seven inches of mud 
and the roof came off. So then we decided to raise it. It was the last church you pass coming down this 
road. It looks elevated so it was $175,000 to raise the church so it took us a while. It'd be three years in 
September.  
 
BS  1:11:15 
So, we were kind of running out of money with the labor to do the inside. Kenny had never done 
anything like it but I wish you could see it. He redid the kitchen, put a brand-new kitchen in, kitchen 
cabinets. He put the countertop in, the flooring, and he did all of it and then he got COVID in October 
and he was recovering. He was bored so he went out and put up 40 pieces of  
 
NS  1:11:40 
...Paneling ... 
 
BS  1:11:41 
....Beadboard paneling in the Fellowship Hall. 
 
NS  1:11:43 
When nobody was around he'd go there so it was like he was kind of dancing around. I've got COVID, 
y'all stay away.  
BS;  A lot of people were like --- and they said that when they didn't have anybody to do the kitchen, a 
few people were like, they say Kenny's going to do it. I think they're like “Eewh, a diesel mechanic is 
gonna, we’ve seen his shop” but that kitchen they're like, “Wow, we just can't believe he did this 
kitchen” 
 
NS  1:12:06 
It's amazing some stuff he'll do. Like he would never think about doing that for a living, doing carpentry 
work?  Well what he’ll do on his own. 
 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
49 
KS  1:12:12 
I work for women to cover it, the kitchen? That's be bad. 
 
BS  1:12:17 
 But it gave him a good reprieve. It was something different, and he was, he was proud of it.  
 
NS  1:12:23 
And there's a sense of pride in being able to fix anything of your own, like not having to ask other 
people. I have to ask them to come do my taxes. I have no clue how to do taxes but if there's anything 
else in the house that can be done, needs to be done. I will try to do it myself. It needs to be done but 
he's the same way, he's gonna work on it. If he can do it, he's gonna --- he's not gonna pay someone, if 
he can do it. 
 
BS  1:12:45 
Our last grandchild which probably, I’m sure is our last, Neil is, four. But she's always been his eyeball. 
He loves them all but, she's always busy an all time and we would take her out to the church some days 
last winter, when we were working. We'd finished one big room and he was putting the ceiling fan up, 
she wanted to climb up on the ladder with a screwdriver and he dropped something. and she said,           
"Papa, are you going to have a spell?"  
 
KC  1:13:13 
See she's the next generation.  
 
NS  1:13:15 
I think so. She's always got a screwdriver in her hand or a hammer. The other night I was doing 
something, she's like, “I want to help”. She's taking the drill apart, and it's funny because I've been 
working on the boat and I would give her a kiss goodbye or something, and she would go, "Have you 
got fiberglass on you? You you can't come, do not touch me. She goes like that cause, I don't know if 
you know fiberglass at all, but when you sand, it's real fine, and it itches like all get out.  
 
 
NS  1:13:40 
Well shoot, how many? How many pallbearers? Have you been how many times we've been a 
pallbearer? I don't want it is about him but no seriously, have you counted  
 
KS  1:13:49 
25-30. 
 
NS  1:13:51 
 At least. 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
50 
 
KS  1:13:53 
I'm the community pallbearer. 
 
NS  1:13:55 
It does. I mean how many people's ...? I think I've been like three, at the most. But you've been yeah. 
They got to counting them, it's like good lord. So yeah, that's that's a good thing for your character. 
 
BS  1:14:10 
That speaks of your reputation. 
 
KC  1:14:12 
This book is beautiful, too. That was so good of you, too. 
 
NS  1:14:21 
They, they build a whole entire because like I said that fishing thing up but looking back on it now the 
menhaden plant they did. They got the designs from another local man that was really from here but 
moved to Morgan city, Louisiana and set up a processing plant for freezing it and him, my uncle, or his 
brother in law, my grandfather and his his other uncle. Which is a unique situation. His grandfather 
passed away, when did your grandpa Virgil pass away? 
 
KS  1:14:53 
 '68. 
 
NS  1:14:53 
'68, but his uncle is a year younger than you? 
 
NS  1:15:00 
Mhm. [affirmative] 
 
 
NS  1:15:00 
Because he his grandmother had --- so, he almost has like a brother and than he was an uncle. Because 
after his grandfather passed away, like his father kind of help be that Father, Father figure, and they 
work together. And so here's another is pretty mechanically inclined. And the four of them built 
fabricated from scratch the whole entire process based on  somebody else is doing the welding 
fabrication, the electrical, the layout for this industry that lasted 20 something years until grandp-, my 
grandfather's health decline and his Hurricane Isabel? Flooded a lot of the equipment and at that time, 
the industry had slowed down so much it wasn't worth doing the repairs to maintain it. But yeah, they 
they did a lot of work with that. So not just mechanic or anything mechanical. I mean, he is primarily 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
51 
engines but he does a lot of mechanical of other different things. If you can't figure it out, he'll invite me 
here watch YouTube and watch videos and... 
 
KC  1:16:03 
Well as we wrap up, we have a question that we asked everyone which is: Do you have a favorite book? 
And this is the both of you. Do you have a favorite tool that you like working with? Do you have one 
that just--- that's your go to? 
 
JG  1:16:16 
 
KS  1:16:16 
Not really, I use different job, different tool.  
 
JG  1:16:21 
Yeah How about you, Neil? 
 
NS  1:16:23 
I don't know. There's a bunch different ones that come in handy, but that's the one that I've used the most 
one every single thing do whether it's doing diesel work, carpentry work, boat work. I guess I'm gonna 
say it. Just a standard little— 
 
BS  1:16:46 
[crosstalk, Barbara comes into the room holding a hushpuppy maker, a flat paddle to scoop and slice 
dough for frying, made by KS] 
 
KC  1:16:50 
Wow.  
 
BS  1:16:51 
A lot of people have borrowed it.  
 
NS  1:16:54 
Yeah, in fact, I'd used that the other day. We got a cook out at work, for one of the guys is gonna retire. 
Yeah,  
 
KC  1:17:06 
Let me take a photo of it. Here we go. We have a collection now.  
 
NS  1:17:11 
afc2020009_020—Kenny and Neil Styron interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell 
 
52 
That little impact gun, the little on the wall that you can put drill bits in, with screws in it, with the light 
on it. It's the go-to thing because you can take bolts out, you can drill holes in, you can put screws in. It's 
just getting --- it speeds up production. I mean everything. That low impact gun. That's probably because 
it's covered in fiberglass resin grease, dirt, it's been used for everything in the world. But yes, that's 
probably my go-to with for anything I do. That or a multimeter. You gotta have multimeter. Use that for 
everything. 
 
BS  1:17:47 
Yeah. Yes, yes. 
 
KS The most handy tool all the way around is a pair of vice grips.   You can use that for most anything. 
 
NS  1:17:54 
I bought a new one the other day from Lowe's, vice-grips and because you can clamp down, that you can 
use that as a wrench-- I mean, I mean technically you're not supposed use it on soft stuff, but it's 
convenient, you grab it. [Phone ringing] That’s the Church.  
 
KC  1:18:09 
Well, thank you both for doing this, spending an hour to talk to us. It was a real treat.