American F
olkilfe Center, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2014/008)
 
f
older 20.24
 
writings
 
a
rticles, unpublished
 
BESS HAWES' SPEECH TO THE 96TH MEETING OF THE NCA  5/5/88
 
Good mornin
 
place on the bus:
 
of the National
 
in St. Louis, Mi.
,
 
Folk Arts a
 
doing busines hei
 
were still just
 
years, when we w
 
Nc k  <
5F-e c
 
M I
 5 SOU
f
l
 
to take first
 
the 96th meeting
 
for the first time
 
;
souri.  We've been
 
be exact, when we
 
r
ing those pioneer
 
i
e of our earliest
 
grants was to the Missouri Friends of the Folk Arts to help with the
 
production costs of a two record album of traditional Ozark music which
 
was, in due course, published under the title "I'm Old But I
'm Awfully
 
Tough".... a phrase that has guided me ever since.
 
We should report too, another happy coincidence -
-
 the editor,
 
recordist, and photographer for that album, Barry Bergey, joined the
 
Folk Arts staff some eight years later as its senior arts specialist.
 
It was one of our great hires.  He's in St. Louis today, technically on
 
vacation, but actually -
-
 in the generous style we've come to count on
 
during the years we've worked together -
-
 contributing his services this
 
morning to further the music he loves and the artists he knows so well.
 
He's here today along with the Assistant Director of the Folk Arts Program,
 
Dan Sheehy.  Both of these men are remarkable public servants and I
'd
 
appreciate your recognizing them at this time.
 Barry Bergey and Dan Sheehy.
 
Turning to today's business, this is the time for Folk Arts' Program
 
review, a sort of annual agency exercise somewhat akin to a thorough
 
spring clean, when we poke into the corners and dig out the dusty places
 
and shine up the nice bits especially bright.  Our particular attention
 
this morning is focussed on the proposed new guidelines, but we try always
 
BESS HAWES' SPEECH TO THE 96TH MEETING OF THE NCA  5/5/88
 
Good morning.
 The Folk Arts Program is honored to take first
 
place on the business agenda on the first morning of the 96th meeting
 
of the National Council on the Arts, today convening for the first time
 
in St. Louis, Missouri.
 
Folk Arts actually feels very comfortable in Missouri.  We've been
 
doing busines here for a long time -
-
 since 1976, to be exact, when we
 
were still just a category in the Music Program.  During those pioneer
 
years, when we were beginning to chart our course, one of our earliest
 
grants was to the Missouri Friends of the Folk Arts to help with the
 
production costs of a two record album of traditional Ozark music which
 
was,  in due course, published under the title "I'm Old But I
'm Awfully
 
Tough".... a phrase that has guided me ever since.
 
We should report too, another happy coincidence -
-
 the editor,
 
recordist, and photographer for that album, Barry Bergey, joined the
 
Folk Arts staff some eight years later as its senior arts specialist.
 
It was one of our great hires.  He's in St. Louis today, technically on
 
vacation, but actually -
-
 in the generous style we've come to count on
 
during the years we've worked together -
-
 contributing his services this
 
morning to further the music he loves and the artists he knows so well.
 
He's here today along with the Assistant Director of the Folk Arts Program,
 
Dan Sheehy.  Both of these men are remarkable public servants and I
'd
 
appreciate your recognizing them at this time.
 Barry Bergey and Dan Sheehy.
 
Turning to today's business, this is the time for Folk Arts' Program
 
review, a sort of annual agency exercise somewhat akin to a thorough
 
spring clean, when we poke into the corners and dig out the dusty places
 
and shine up the nice bits especially bright.  Our particular attention
 
this morning is focussed on the proposed new guidelines, but we try always
 
-2-
to remember that the paper flow and our administrative needs have been
 
initiated and compelled by the needs of the artists we serve.  Therefore
 
we will bring you these guidelines within the contexts of the artists
 
who have been and will be assisted by them -
-
 if we've done them properly,
 
that is.
 And since we're in Missouri, we want to introduce to you some
 
Missouri artists.
 
In past presentations to the National Council we've tried to bring
 
out the multi-partedness of Folk Arts' responsibility.  This time we
 
thought it would be interesting to concentrate and so look perhaps a
 
bit deeper -
-
 but then that made our task of selection even harder
 
than usual.
 Should we bring in Missouri's newest immigrants -
-
 the
 
Laotian artists perhaps, or the Afghans?  Or how about looking at the
 
amazingly healthy remnants of French traditional arts that have graced
 
south-east Missouri since La Salle and his men came down the Mississippi
 
in the 18th century?  But then how can you come to St. Louis and not
 
even mention the blues?  Or gospel music?  Or the great Ozark balladry?
 
In the end we settled on an aspect of Missouri tradition that may
 
seem unexpected to some but that is very familiar to American folk
 
music fans and scholars and to Missourans themselves, of course -
-
 the
 
extraordinary Missouri fiddle tradition.  One scholar observed -
-
"Nowhere in the United States, perhaps, has its great heritage of evocative
 
fiddle music been better preserved than in the Missouri Ozarks."  We
 
should add that Missouri fiddles ring out beyond the Ozarks region alone;
 
in point of fact, one of the extraordinary features of Missouri fiddling
 
is the number and variety of distinctive musical styles that remain in
 
enthusiastic performance.  A map of Missouri fiddle styles would criss-
cross the state with melodic variations, and here to explain and
 
-3 -
demonstrate this to us briefly are our honored guests:  Art Galbraith
 
and Gordon McCann from Springfield, Missouri, Charley Walden from
 
Columbia, Missouri, and Justin Bertholdi from Marshfield, Missouri.
 
Before I turn the proceedings over to our guests, however, there
 
are a couple of points I would like to make.  The term "fiddle" is
 
used in some parts of the country to mean the same instrument as "violin."
 
There is no difference.
 So if Council members will look around their
 
places they will find a handsome brochure from a recent Folk Arts tour
 
titled "Masters of the Folk Violin."  We could just as well have called
 
it "Masters of the Folk Fiddle" but we thought it would be interesting
 
to sound a little bit uptown for once.  You might be interested to hear,
 
too, that that tour was a sell-out from beginning to end.
 It went to
 
all the New England states as well as to New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio
 
and Illinois, and some people say it was the best single folk music
 
program they ever heard.  And one of its star artists was the great jazz
 
fiddler from Kansas City, Missouri -
-
 Mr. Claude Williams.
 
So these gentlemen who I am introducing to you in such excrutiating
 
length are not only fiddlers, they are violinists.  They have worked hard
 
to make themselves the fine musicians they are just for the love of the
 
music, just for the satisfaction they feel when they play a tune
 tX° 't
 1
'
0ki.
 
Their musical and intellectual sensibilities are
 
refined and developed; to learn what they know they have themse1ve
 
become collectors,  savants and scholars.
 
In this they are like most folk artisl
I know -
-
 and most American
 
citizens for that matter.  They live in a bi-cultural, perhaps tn -cultural
 
society.
 They move into one world, perhaps, in their daily occupation,
 
to return home to another world at night.
 They speak in one dialect at
 
'
p
 
-4 -
at work, another to their old-world grandparents, perhaps a third in
 
church or at school.  Mr. Art Galbraith, the senior fiddler here, has
 
retired from the postal service; his coffee table is likely to hold
 
the latest New Republic or Sunday New York Times (whose crossword
 
puzzles he does with blinding speed); he also knows more old-time Missouri
 
fiddle tunes -
-
 
than any other pm
eo
rs
so
t n ow
f e th
ce
om
u ld
d 
es
fc
in
en
d 
de
td
o 
 b
th
rr
io
nu
g gh
h eg
re
en
.  
e
rH
at
ii
s 
on
ap
s 
pr
in
e nh
ti
is
c ef
, am
Mi
rl
.y 
 
Justin Bertholdi,  is a junior in Marshfield High School who learned to
 
play in his own family band and who is interested in
 
Mr. Gordon McCann, the guitarist, runs a blueprint supply business and
 
has collaborated with the late great Ozark folklorist, Vance Randolph,
 
in a number of scholarly projects.  Finally, Mr. Charley Walden is
 
about to receive his PhD in Chemical Engineering at the University of
 
Missouri.  He has played old-time fiddle since a boy, he picked up
 
tunes, techniques and style from the very best of the Missouri old-
timers he came in touch with and they have done him the honor of
 
electing him to the presidency of the Missouri Old Time Fiddlers
 
Association, a position in which he has served with distinction.
 I
'm
 
going to ask him to tell you some of the things they have done, and I
'm
 
going to ask Barry Bergey to come up and join in the conversation
 
CHARLEY TALK ABOUT:
 OLD TIME FIDDLERS ASSOCIATION
 
REGIONALISM IN MISSOURI FIDDLE MUSIC
 
(DEMONSTRATE TWO OR THREE REGIONAL STYLF
 
INTRODUCE ART GALBRAITH
 
(
GALBRAITH PLAY TUNE OR TWO?)
 
TELL ABOUT SUMMER CAMP/APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
 
INTRODUCE JUSTIN BERTHOLDI
 
(
JUSTIN PLAY TUNE)
 
DESCRIBE CAMPAIGN TO MAKE FIDDLE STATE INSTRUMENT
 
(EVERYBODY PLAY TOGETHER?)
 
-5 -
I
'd like now to underline the elements in the Folk Arts Guidelines
 
that have been touched upon the conversation and demonstrations we have
 
just heard:
 the importance of regionalism in American folk arts, the
 
necessity for supporting traditional art forms where they occur;
 
apprenticing and other means of passing the tradition on; the empowerment
 
of artists through education and scholarly research; the necessity of
 
ongoing field work; touring.  And I guess the reason I felt good about
 
arranging this particular presentation here in Missouri is not just
 
the warm-heartedness of it all, it's that here we could show you a
 
situation where the complicated elements we deal with had at least
 
for the time being come together:
 a vibrant historic local tradition
 
of important scholarship; an active ongoing university-sponsored
 
research effort (
the Missouri Cultural Heritage Center at the University
 
of Missouri and Cape Girardeau), a lively state arts agency and a
 
progressive state education program.  And, let's not forget, a federal
 
agency prepared to put up some of the hard cash necessary to help move
 
some of the ideas generated by these interacting forces off dead center.
 
We're about to start working through the guidelines, but the
 
sinister word "cash" reminds me to draw your attention now quickly to
 
two developments that have come to light since the introduction to our
 
Guidelines was written.  We are about to hold our final grants panel
 
meeting for FY 88 and have noticed, to our real surprise,  that cultural
 
organizations in the state of New York have applied for $172,000 49
 
or 18% of the total amount we have remaining to allocate.
 In previous
 
meetings, we have already recommended a good 13% of our total funds to
 
that single state; the thing is, they send in good strong applications.
 
-6 -
We have long been aware that there are an awful lot of folks in New
 
York, but the past three years have seen a statistically significant
 
upsurge in the quantity and quality of their applications.  When I
 
wondered why this might be, Barry Bergey responded with an old Missouri
 
proverb -
-
 "Money follows money."  And it's true -
-
 the New York State
 
legislature has for the past two years voted one and a half million
 
dollars in grants money for folk arts, and we are beginning to feel the
 
force of that action.  A lot of competent people in New York have set
 
about doing projects to utilize that money, and they are turning to us
 
for match.  There is no particular indication that they will stop,
 
either, nor do we have any reason to want them to.
 Indeed what we
 
would like would be to see other states following New York's lead.
 
But it does catch us a bit short in the pocketbook, especially at
 
a time when the Apprenticeship effort has taken off with as much
 
enthusiasm as it has.  We now have 35 states in various stages of a
 
state-based apprenticeship program, including 4 that are totally
 
self-sustaining.  We can project that Folk Arts will expend almost
 
half a million dollars for apprenticing during FY 88.  And it now seems
 
likely that it will be more in 1989.
 In other words, success is
 
beginning to hit us hard.
 
We didn't address that problem in the guidelines -
-
 for one thing
 
although we knew we were running into trouble, the outlines were not
 
as clear when we prepared the guidelines as they are now.
 Besides, I
 
think guidelines should guide, not limit.  These are the most creative
 
and interesting ideas we could come up with, and I personally hope they
 
will produce even more interesting applications than we have brought you
 
-7 -
this year.  And now I
'm going to ask Dan Sheehy to take us through them
 
point by point:  he has worked them over in excruciating detail and
 
knows their language far better than I
.