Interview Log: Jack Bendror, Robert Ferrando, Sam Bendror  
Time Code 
 Content 
  
  
00:00:02 
Introduction. Jack Bendror, Robert Ferrando, and Sam Bendror, Mekatronics Inc., 
Port Washington, NY. Interviewed June 4, 2017, at the Roslyn Hotel, Roslyn, New 
York. Interviewed by Jeanne Drewes, librarian. 
  
  
00:00:52 
Career Change: Jack incorporated the company in the autumn of 1958.  He was 
working as a freelance engineer, struggling to find work because engineering work 
during the Korean War had to be assigned to United States citizens.  Through a prior 
employer in the Printing Industries Equipment Company, he met the owner of the 
Oversewing Machine Company of America, an equipment manufacturer, from whom 
he got the idea for a machine to do the rounding and backing of oversewn books.   His 
article describing the machine won an award from Applied Hydraulics magazine in 
1957.  Jack decided to start his own business with encouragement from Howard Atkins 
from the Oversewing Machine Company.  Jack invited Leo Robbins, a consultant for 
Printing Industries Equipment, to partner with him in that company, Robbins and 
Bendror Associations Inc. 
  
  
00:03:40 
Technology: Robbins and Bendror created and patented the Speed-Nip, a book 
compressor to prepare books for binding.  Jack has seven or eight patents, but stopped 
patenting his innovations because people will just copy you if you don't accept their 
offer to buy your patent.  The second machine they developed was the Hydropress 
Building-In Machine, replacing the standing press in the casing-in process. 
  
  
00:06:25 
Mentors: Jack learned about the needs of library binders by attending meetings of the 
Library Binding Institute (LBI) and by visiting binderies.   
  
  
00:07:23  
Technology: In 1963, Jack developed an improved rounder and backer to speed up the 
periodical binding process.  Jack published a timeline of inventions in 1980, and has 
invented 11 more machines since then. 
  
  
00:08:11 
History: Family-owned business enterprises. In 1960 Jack formed Precision Machine 
Shop on 28th Street in Manhattan to be able to build the machines he and his partner 
had been designing.  The main office was at 220 Fifth Avenue with just two drawing 
boards. 
  
  
00:09:50 
History: Family-owned business enterprises. Sam came to New York after ten years in 
a kibbutz because Jack said he needed help with the business.  Sam had practical 
mechanical knowledge and during that year helped Jack with the hydraulics of his 
machine and making hydraulic power packs to sell commercially.  Sam also designed 
an inventory system.  Sam came back in 1968 and was Vice-President for three years.  
He managed the inventory and went on maintenance calls.  Sam also arrived at the 
office on a snowy day just in time to clear the snow, get to the office, and field a sales 
call from Scotland. 
  
  
00:13:22 
History: When Jack lived in Israel, he was applying to universities abroad because his 
car had been used for clandestine operations against the British government in 
Palestine.  It was difficult to get accepted to Ivy League schools in the United States 
because the G. I. Bill was making college affordable to the recently returned soldiers 
from World War II.  He did get accepted to Michigan State, however, and the 
University of Aberdeen.  Taking a look at how far north Aberdeen is, he opted for 
Michigan State for warmer weather, forgetting about the tempering effects of the Gulf 
Stream.  Jack quit his engineering studies and returned to Israel to serve in the 1948 
Arab-Israeli War of Independence as an engineer.  Jack developed engineering interest 
and skills through automobiles.  In order to drive, he father insisted that he learn how 
the car worked and how to fix it.  In 1952, Jack returned to the United States and 
enrolled in mechanical engineering at New York University.  He had to continue his 
engineering studies to get a master's degree to stay in the United States because of 
immigration laws. 
 
 
00:20:07 
Bendror describes how immigration quotas favored engineers and nurses.  Dudley 
Weiss wrote a letter on Jack's behalf, testifying that Jack's contributions to the library 
binding industry necessitated his continued residence in the United States.  Howard 
Atkins provided an affidavit of good character 
 
 
00:21:29 
Career: Robert Ferrando came to Mekatronics from the defense industry, working on 
programming CNC machinery and manufacturing.  Robert worked on the Ultrabind 
machine, converting hand tooled conventional machines to digital CNC.  Robert has 
been at Mekatronics for thirty-two years.  They changed making angle iron frames to 
more expensive tubular frames made out of Aluminum profiles, which simplified the 
manufacturing process. 
 
 
00:24:11 
Employees: Ken Lines was chief engineer and had designed most of the Ultrabind 
machine.  He passed away in 2012 and had worked with Jack for 42 years.  Ken was a 
unique person; he very rarely spoke.  In spite of his social awkwardness, he became a 
member of Jack's family.  Customers did not enjoy dealing with him however.  Jack 
provided him with a standard answer for customers who called with problems, "We 
don't have the answer for you right now, but we'll get back to you," posted right on his 
phone, instead of just remaining silent on the phone while he considered the issue.   
 
 
00:30:32 
Goals: Jack hoped to transform the bookbinding industry from a craft operation to a 
modern manufacturing industry.   
 
 
00:32:06 
Greatest Accomplishment:  Jack considers the library bookbinding industry family.  
Some of his innovations were delivered before the industry was ready for them, but 
many became widely adopted over time.   
 
 
00:33:47 
Goals: Sam sees Jack as always having been motivated by challenges, even the 
personal challenge of his recent stroke.   
 
 
00:35:37 
Building and Plant: From the original location on 28th Street, they moved to East 11th 
Street in the East Village.  That area was condemned for an urban renewal project, and 
they moved out to Long Island, to Port Washington.  With a decline in the library 
binding industry, the profits aren't keeping up with the costs, but Jack has no interest in 
retiring.  They are currently looking to sell the building with a permit to remain there 
for two years.  They are clearing out the manufacturing space they no longer need, but 
maintaining the areas that support the machines that are in use in binderies, just 10,000 
square feet.   
 
 
00:41:47 
Technology:  The first four Ultrabind machines were produced at a $20,000 loss 
apiece.  The machines were tested at the manufacturing site with sample books 
provided by Bridgeport National Bindery and Acme Bookbinding.  Customers wanted 
continual adjustments to the machines' capabilities.  The original Ultrabind required 
three people to operate it:  one to feed books into the machine, one to drop down end 
sheets, a person to catch the completed product at the end. 
 
 
00:47:02 
Bendror describes economic aspects of the industry. Since 2008 lenders have been 
reluctant to give library binders money for capital investment, which has a direct 
impact on an equipment supplier.  Used machinery has become more popular. 
 
 
00:47:42 
Mentors: Jack mentions Dudley Weiss, Howard Atkins, and his first customer, Frank 
Barnard of the F. J. Barnard Company, later taken over by Acme Bookbinding.  Sam 
also points out that Jack's wife Gloria was a constant source of support and 
encouragement.  Jack admired Gloria's strength, particularly in the care of their 
daughter who suffered a brain injury in the forceps, was legally blind, and was 
developmentally delayed.  The Bendrors were dismayed with the state of education for 
special needs children in Port Washington in the 1960s, but eventually found the 
Institute for the Achievement of Human Potential in Philadelphia, PA and went to 
Philadelphia for eight years.   
 
Robert has had many mentors throughout his life, John Mariotta from Wedtech who 
sent him to school to learn CNC programming to then in turn teach it to other youth in 
the South Bronx.  It was a high-stress, deadline-driven atmosphere.  At Mekatronics, 
Gloria worked to de-stress Robert and adjust to the new environment.  Both Jack and 
Ken Lines were also mentors to Robert. 
 
Jack was Sam's mentor, both as a brother and as a businessman.  Gloria also inspired 
him to try to live without limitations. 
 
 
00:58:04 
Technology: Jack chooses the rounder and backer machine, created specifically for the 
library binding industry.  It was the first and led to the rest of the innovations Jack 
created.  Every machine is a source of pride and joy. 
 
Robert's work on the oversewing machine was interesting to him because it was the 
first machine he worked on.  He found it fascinating to research the documentation 
from the people who worked on developing and improving the machine before him in 
the 1920s. 
 
 
01:00:40 
Advice to Future Generations: Jack feels that there is a future for the binding 
business, but it will take courage to find one's place in it.  Look for niche markets. 
 
Sam recommends connecting to your inner being and developing your own ideas.  
Then you have to have courage and be ready to fail.  Failure is a learning process.  Find 
people with whom you can truly share your ideas. 
 
Jack wonders who the future generation is.  It is very rare for a binder's child to be in 
the business. 
 
Robert recommends embracing technology instead of fighting it, using it to your 
advantage. 
 
 
01:07:31 
Changes in Business over Time: Robert mentions that the library binding community 
has been like a family.  The trend towards consolidation and larger and larger binderies 
has moved away from those personal relationships. 
 
 
 01:09:59 
End of interview.