American F
olklife C
enter, L
ibrary o
f Congress
 
Bess L
omax Hawes Collection (
AFC 2
014/008)
 
f
older 03.01
 
c
orporate a
ctivities
 
a
dministrative r
ecords
 
NEA, 1
977-1992
 
F
r
-
 
[
IRTIOnRL
 WRSHInGTOn
 
EF1DOWMEnT
 D
.C. ZOSOG
 
F
=OR
 40 -
�
 
THE F
ARTS
 
October 28,  1977
 
A
 Federal a
gency a
dvised b
y t
he
 
National Council on t
he A
rts
 
Mr.  Hank Willett
 
Alabama State Council on the
 
Arts and Humanities
 
449 S. McDonough
 
Montgomery, Alabama  36130
 
Dear Hank,
 
I have been sitting home with a mild fever thinking about
 
all the things I  ought/might/should have said the other
 
afternoon when you asked me about what I would do if I were
 
going to be Alabama state folklorist.
 
The main thing I left out of our conversation,  I think,  is
 
the thing that everybody leaves out when they're talking about
 
folklore.
 Really, way down at the bottom,  for the big impor-
tant part,  folklore is about protest.
 I know that all God's
 
chillun got folklore, but the president of General Motors
 
doesn't have to bother to write a song to explain how he feels
 
about something; he has a public relations division to do
 
that for him.
 The most of the best of folkloric expression
 
remains in the minds and the hands of the have-nots.
 And the
 
have-nots are always and forever talking about how they wish
 
they were the haves, and how they ought to be the haves.
 And
 
they will go on doing that -- eloquently.
 It's a truism that
 
art emerges from discontent, but it's gotten unfashionable
 
to talk about this, to mention, even, that a love song in
 
the United States is generally an expression of longing and
 
need.
 (
Think how few happy songs about consummated love
 
there are in the U.S. repertoire
,.)
 
You oughtn't to be afraid of this continual expression of dis-
content.
 You ought to encourage it, actually,  and face up to
 
it forthrightly because I believe the American people -- as
 
I said to the interns the other morning -- are fundamentally
 
a
 
and essentially egalitarians.
 They really believe that every-
body ought to have a fair shake,  and although it may disturb
 
them when people say they're not getti ng  a fa ir shake,
 they
 
will take that message home and ruminate over it and ponder
 
it and try  to study out`what to do about it.
 You're going
 
to hit a deep protest element in all the black material,
 
(
and a lot of the white and "ethnic" as well)  that you handle,
 
and you should feel strong and confident in your presentation
 
of it.
 The most interesting thing you said to me the other
 
afternoon is that you thought you had to be a little bit gutsy
 
to be a state folklorist, and so you do.
 More power to your
 
right arm.
 
Okay,  some specifics:
 
a.
 I think your strategy of concentrating first on
 
traditional artists in schools and traditional artists in the
 
parks is great .  Do a few of these well your first year,  and
 
you'll be in great shape.
 
b.
 Be sure you work with the best anal don't be scared
 
to decide who's best and who's not.
 Somebody's got to keep
 
the standards up,  if the art is to flower, and you're the
 
most qualified person around.
 If you get worried,  call up
 
somebody and let them help you, but don't lag at the job of
 
locating the finest singers,  story-tellers, blacksmiths,
 
whatever and putting,them forward.
 
C.
 I keep on worrying about those Mississippi black
 
ladies saying that life isn't as much fun as it used to be.
 
One little strategy,  as you move around the state, might be
 
to chat with people about how and where they get and got
 
together, both in present and past terms.
 Television and
 
fast transportation have probably eliminated a lot of the
 
older sociable occasions,  and' my hunch is that some communi-
ties might themselves act upon a casual suggestion that they
 
might want to start up their strawberry social or their
 
Sunday School picnics or their volunteer fireman's benefit
 
supper, again.
 Or maybe they'd like to begin some new event
 
that would represent their particular community in a particu-
lar way.
 American Indian tribes are reviving lots of their
 
old social dances  (which are really social occasions).
 I
 
don't know why southerners might not like to as well.
 
d.
 Pete Seeger once told me that when he made up a
 
concert program he used "cultural guerrilla tactics".
 The
 
term sounds a bit odd these days, but I know what he meant:
 
that he would put in a song with. a bit of a zinger,  and then
 
something that everybody would like and then a song that only
 
three or four people in the whole audience would really under-
stand, and .
then lead off on a big audience participation number.
 
And so on.
 I think this is why I started rambling on so long
 
about festivals when we were talking.
 Festivals are by their
 
nature joyous events of human contact,  and when they.are prop-
erly set up (
e.g. along the principles we were discussing),
 
each person
' can take in just as much of one intensive experience
 
as he can personally bear, and then go somewhere else.
 They're
 
a marvellous vehicle for cultural understanding, because you
 
can be exposed to the new and exciting and frightening and
 
then move along to the old and familiar and comfortable,  taking
 
in from each the exact amount you need and can tolerate.
 And
 
thereby people grow.
 I
'd work,  I think, towards festivals --
maybe not a state-wide one  (particularly the first year)  --
maybe regional ones would work better.
 Or you might try the
 
Maryland strategy -- a big state bash for a few years and
 
then a series of small regional ones as spin-offs.
 
e.
 Believe in yourself as a cultural explainer.
 People
 
don't like to be lectured at, but they love -
to understand things
 
about themselves and other people.  When yqu set up an artist-
in-the schools project, hang around, and don't be bashful about
 
barging in and explaining matters.
 Be sure that the folks
 
you bring into any situation, whether in schools or parks or
 
festivals, have the kind of overall cultural presentation that
 
will help make sense out of and give importance to their ac-
tivity.
 You're a nice and modest person,  and I worry that,
 
out of your modesty or a sense that the folks ought themselves
 
to do all the talking, you will withhold your essential exper-
tise.
 You know a lot that people need to know,  about tie-ins
 
with the past,  about cross-cultural contact, about the depth
 
of their traditions.
 Share it.
 
f.
 Find out about the local newspaper and radio networks
 
and make full use of them.
 Maybe you could start a state-
wide newspaper column and thereby get in correspondence with
 
the folks that know things.
 Country people read their news-
papers.
 See what you can do to persuade the local radio sta-
tion to open their studios to the local musicians and talkers.
 
When Woody Guthrie was in California (before he became famous)
 
he persuaded a local radio station to let him run a show on
 
which he invited anybody to come in the studio; the only rule
 
was they could only sing one song or tell one story.
 Apparently,
 
the entire county listened to that show every single week.
 
g.
 Find out who the local historians are.
 I
've never been
 
in a town in which there wasn't one -- sometimes official,  some-
times unofficial,  just a person with an interest.  Alan
 
(Lomax)  thinks that the Roots guy has done what folklorists
 
ought to have been doing all this time, and that he has
 
pointed the way to our important future activity.
 Lots of
 
the local historical societies,  especially in the south, are
 
full of awful snobs, but some of them are not, and we ought
 
to be making use of their expertise and encouraging them to
 
spread out beyond the F.F.V.  syndrome.
 I
'd certainly pay
 
courtesy calls on all of them,, and see what they are doing
 
and how they could be helped, at the least.
 This would not
 
only broaden your political base but your information network.
 
h.
 Don't overlook, as I may already have mentioned,
 
the agricultural county agents and the home economics demon-
strators.
 Maybe you could set up a meeting to explain to them
 
the importance of traditional arts, crafts and practices, and
 
get them feeding information in to you.
 The Four-H clubs are
 
another resource,  as Joe Wilson has mentioned.
 You're in a
 
basically agricultural state, and you should use that network
 
to explain what you're doing.
 
i.
 In terms of black-white relations.' I think you must
 
bear in mind that you're dealing with a change-over period
 
between a caste system and a class system.  We don't like to
 
talk about either of these, but they were  (
and are)  there.
 
During the centuries of slavery and post-slavery,  the caste
 
system prevailed, and,- like most methods by which human beings
 
organize their affairs,  there were advantages and disadvantages.
 
The disadvantages are so obvious I needn't go into them, but
 
the advantages of a caste system seem to have been (in world-
wide terms)  that when both sides "know their place",  they can
 
interact on a human level across caste lines, person-to-person.
 
Individual ties of affection and respect could -- and did --
and still do -- thrive.
 Now nobody knows quite how to behave,
 
and every encounter is a bit edgy and awkward.
 The thing to
 
remember,  I think,  is that these personal ties are still
 
there, and the feelings of appreciation are still strong,  ac-
ross the color  (
class)  line.
 You can,  I believe, build on
 
these,  if you make the calm assumption that everybody in Ala-
bama knows that among the great gifts that Alabama has given
 
the nation and the world are the contributions of black culture,
 
in terms of crafts,  arts, dance, narratives.
 I don't think
 
you ought to try to integrate everythinq, but I do think you
 
should spend a good deal of your energy in support of black
 
events and that you should see to it that black culture forms
 
a part of every major enterprise you undertake.
 You don't
 
have to underscore this; just do it.
 
j.
 Try to keep the various purposes of all this activity
 
sorted out for yourself.
 This is maybe the hardest part of
 
the job.
 Community socials and community radio or television
 
.shows are one kind of thing; a presentation of Alabama tradi-
tional culture by the University is another kind of thing.
 
The standards may not be identical and possibly can not be.
 
These will be your hardest decisions, and, again, don't be
 
afraid to holler for help.
 I would keep on and on eternally
 
pushing for the highest quality possible  (believing in your
 
expertise in determining what is the highest quality), but I
 
would recognize that flexibility is probably essential, if
 
nothing else,  in order to keep things moving.
 
k.
 This is purely personal,  and you may wish to disregard
 
it entirely.
 I deeply believe that the push towards electronic
 
instruments is antithetical to our democratic system.
 If people
 
want to be loud, they should have to be loud by exerting honest
 
human effort, not because they have enough money to buy a
 
machine that can drown out everybody else in the world.
 There's
 
a kind of imperialism about the insistence that everything
 
uttered has to be so'loud that nothing else can be heard.
 The
 
quiet voice, the subtle intonation, the delicate decoration
 
all go by the board with these damnable instruments that are
 
usually badly monitored and have nothing except sheer volume
 
to offer.
 It's a losing battle  (
so far), but I hope you'll
 
try to persuade your folks that they don't need a ten thousand
 
dollar amplifier and a'flat-bed truck to haul it in,  in order
 
to make it.
 Myself,  I
'd rule them flatly unacceptable in any
 
festival or concert I ran.
 If amplification is needed,  let
 
it be through a microphone system that is under the control
 
of a qualified sound man, with an ear.
 
When I re-read what I
've written so far,  it sounds awfully
 
presumptious.
 You're an intelligent and honorable man.
 Your
 
job is just to move quietly and deliberately and confidently
 
about your business of letting the folks -- all of them --
have their say,  in the best circumstances possible.
 And God
 
or culture or history or the unified field theory or something
 
will take care of the rest.  My own best wishes and affection
 
go with you always.
 Please let me know if I can ever help.
 
Cordially,
 
Bess Lomax Hawes
 
Director
 
Folk Arts Program
 
1
 National Endowment f
or t
he Arts
 Henry Willett
 
Regional Representative
 
November 
1 1987
 
MEMORANDUM
 
Jeanne Rhinelander, Special
 
FROM:
•
Representative
 
 
 FRAUD
 
RE: 
Monthly Report - OCTOBER, 1987
 
AND THE
 
SELLING OF A SOUTHERN STEREOTYPE
 
IN THE VISUAL ARTS WORLD
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 2
 
I
 
In a November Southern magazine article, "The Selling of
 
Howard Finster," Jack Hitt outlines a system of marketing
 
self-taught Southern artists that one might kindly
 
characterize as patronizing and candidly call fraud
 
(
article attached).
 
Finster is the most visible of these Southern backwoods
 
darlings of the New York art scene.
 Talking Heads paid
 
Finster $5,200.  for an album cover.  He was in the Biennale
 
in Venice.
 Collectors and gallery owners sing Finster's
 
praises.  And the work sells, occasionally bringing more
 
than $10,000. for a single painting.
 
But not everyone is so enthusiastic about this "outside
 
Southern visionary" art phenomenon.
 John Vlach  director
 
of Folklife Programs at George Washington University and
 
former chairman of the Endowment's Folk Arts panel, is
 
especially pointed in his criticism.
 "It's a fraud
 
perpetuated by the New York art establishment.
 This is
 
'
The Finger-Painted Word'  (
in reference to Tom Wolfe's
 
'
The Painted Word.') Howard Finster and these others are
 
eccentric to any image Southerners hold about themselves,
 
but it's good enough for Northerners, for Yankees, who
 
always look at Southerners as crackers anyway, as weird,
 
as inbred, full of pellagra and cholera and any other
 
disease, biological or psychological."
 
In Jack Hitt's article, Vlach explains the rather slick
 
and standardized method of promoting the Howard Finster
 
types.
 
It starts with a "picker," a guy who's
 
running the backroads until he comes
 
upon some awkward, gawky painting in
 
garish colors, and then he pays $500.
 
or less and takes away, say, 120 canvases,
 
and he circulates the pieces to collectors,
 
and that drives up the price, and then
 
someone says, "Hey, let's do a one-man
 
show "because a one-man show is prestige,
 
and that draws press and art critics, and
 
now it's "been in the papers," and if you
 
get a catalog printed, that's called
 
"literature," and then some bigger name
 
institution like the Museum of American
 
Folk Art in New York says "Let's do a show
 
on the New Naives, that sounds good," and
 
they do a book on the artist, and that
 
really shills up the market, and then
 
people say, "Who is this guy?" and the
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 3
 
Art World says, "It's Howard Finster,
 
the New Naive, this hot discovery,
 
this shaman of America down in Georgia,
 
and you know what? he plays the banjo too,"
 
and now he's in this gallery with high walls,
 
track lighting, typed labels, and a glossy
 
catalog, and none of this is an accident, but
 
a contrived technique to raise the value of the
 
work, and it's really no different than the
 
publicity machine by which movie stars are made.
 
But rarely does the artist reap profits from his revaluation.
 
The handful of collectors and pickers who have "discovered"
 
Mississippi's Z
.B. Armstrong are so protective of their
 
"phenom" they won't even divulge what county he lives in,
 
and, when pressed as to what kind of prices he pays for
 
Armstrong's paintings one picker commented "I might spoil
 
him if I gave him too much money.
 You know you kind of
 
destroy them if you give them too much money.
 Then you've
 
lost what you've had."
 
My Montgomery friend Mose Tolliver still lives in the
 
same shack of a house he lived in ten years ago.
 He
 
still paints and still sells his work for 20 or 30 dollars.
 
But he is featured in Robert Bishop's Folk Painters of
 
America and in the Corcoran Gallery's exhibition catalog
 
Black Folk Art in America 1930-1980. 
And over the mantel
 
in the living room (which doubles as his bedroom) is a
 
framed photograph of the artist with First Lady Nancy
 
Reagan at the 1982 opening of the Corcoran show.
 But
 
Mose Tolliver remains quite unaware of the fancy prices
 
his work is attracting in the galleries of Atlanta and
 
New York.
 And a lot of folks, it seems, would just as
 
soon keep it that way.
 
ARTS AND AIDS:
 
NEW ORLEANS
 
Modeling its efforts after similar efforts in New York,
 
the New Orleans arts community is jointly undertaking a
 
major fundraising program, Arts Against AIDS.
 In New
 
Orleans Arts Against Aids involves the Contemporary Arts
 
Center and several New Orleans galleries, with the Arts
 
Council of New Orleans providing information and publicity.
 
The Contemporary Arts Center is organizing several special
 
exhibitions and sponsoring a production of the prizewinning
 
"As Is."  Dozens of local artists are donating works for
 
sale, with proceeds going toward the campaign.
 Proceeds
 
from the campaign will be donated to four local AIDS
 
agencies and projects.
 
IV
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 4
 
FOLK ARTS/RURALS/LOCALS/
  
FACILITIES/MEDIA: 
EUNICE,  
LOUISIANA
 
Last month I had the good fortune to meet with Curtis
 
Joubert, mayor of Eunice, Louisiana.
 Eunice is a
 
small town located halfway between Opelousas and
 
Basile in the heart of what Mayor Joubert calls "the
 
Cajun prairie."  Eunice is home to the most traditional
 
of Louisiana's Mardi Gras celebrations and, in its
 
capacity as "Crawfish Capitol of the World," hosts the
 
annual "World Championship Crawfish Etouffee Cook-Off"
 
each year on the last Sunday in March.
 
Last year the city restored the old Liberty Theater, a
 
1920s art deco vaudeville house and turned it into a
 
cultural center.
 Similarly, the old Southern Pacific
 
Railroad Depot has been restored and is now the Eunice
 
Museum, a exhibition space for historical items of
 
Acadiana.
 Mayor Joubert has been the prime mover in
 
all these efforts.
 
What is particularly appealing with Joubert's efforts
 
is  his intense belief in the power and significance
 
of local traditional culture and his equally intense
 
desire to preserve and celebrate that culture.
 "This
 
is where people still eat boudin (
a delicious vernacular
 
Acadian delicacy that is meant to be eaten, not content-
analyzed) on Saturday morning.
 Our culture is everyday
 
living."  The highlight program at Eunice's Liberty Center
 
for the Performing Arts is a weekly two-hour live radio
 
show, "Let the Bon Temps Rouler," a program of Cajun and
 
Zydeco music, Cajun humor and Cajun recipes appropriately
 
billed as "the only show of its kind in the United States."
 
And musicians abound in the Eunice area.
 The Balfas,
 
Clifton Chenier and Rockin'  Sidney are from the immediate
 
area, as are Marc and Ann Savoy, Dennis McGee, Sadie
 
Co__-ville and a host of other lesser-known but equally-
talented practitioners of Acadian music.
 
Eunice was recently selected to participate in the Southern
 
Arts Federation's Rural Initiative, and Mayor Joubert himself
 
travelled to South Carolina to represent the city at SAF's
 
3-day orientation conference.
 
INTER-ARTS: 
CHARLESTON'S
  
EVENTS, CHARLOTTE'S PEFORMING
  
ARTS CENTER AND A ROOTS FESTIVAL
 
FOLLOW-UP
 
Everyone said it wouldn't work.
 "A town the size of
 
Charleston,  South Carolina couldn't possibly support
 
another arts festival.
 Spoleto used up all the economic
 
and human resources the town could possibly muster."
 
But Jim Kearney didn't believe it, and two years ago
 
launched EVENTS, a winter-time festival of performing
 
arts, in Charleston.
 EVENTS recently announced its
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 5
 
1988 third-season schedule, and it is an ambitious
 
one including Momix Dance Company, Susan Marshall Dance
 
Company, San Francisco Mime Troupe, Harriet Schiffer,
 
the Philip Glass Ensemble and a jazz series which
 
includes the World Saxophone Quartet, Marian McPartland
 
and the Jim Cullum Jazz Band of San Antonio.
 All EVENTS
 
events are quite affordable with tickets ranging from
 
$10.00 to $18.00 (
a single event single ticket in center
 
orchestra).
 
Charlotte, North Carolina long ago outgrew its Ovens
 
Auditorium performing arts space.
 Plans for a major
 
new performing arts center have been underway for two
 
years and are now coming to a head.
 The funding plan
 
is as follows:
 
City bonds
 
State of North Carolina
 
1988 General Assembly
 
Privately Raised Funds
 
15 million
 
9
.5 million
 
5
.5 million
 
20 million
 
$50 million
 
Two critical issues remain to be settled before
 
implementation begins -- the city bond issue vote
 
and the selection of the developer.  Most prog-
nostitators are predicting passage of the bond issue
 
(
there is no organized opposition), but the selection
 
of the developer has become a heated issue pitting the
 
long-haired bearded hip developer Burton Gellman against
 
dark-suited power tie folks from the North Carolina
 
National Bank Corporation partnership (
see attached
 
articles).
 
The Alternate ROOTS (Regional Organization of Theatres
 
South) "every few years" performance festival has come
 
and gone, and the post-mortems are beginning to come in.
 
ROOTS director Josephine Grant  (who, by the way, is
 
resigning effective January 31) has ticked off a number
 
of direct opportunities for ROOTS members that were
 
generated by the festival.
 Actors Theatre of Louisville
 
has asked for six scripts from the festival.
 Jomandi has
 
received an offer from an Atlanta television station to
 
produce "The Wizard of Hip."  Carpetbag Theatre's
 
(Knoxville) "Red Summer" is going to be reviewed for
 
American Theatre, etc., etc.
 The newspaper reviews
 
have thusfar been favorable  (
see attached). - Paula
 
Crouch of the Atlanta Journal called the festival "an
 
impressive array of work from traditional to cutting-
edge experimental.
 The festival made a strong statement
 
from artists who believe that you can create art where
 
you live (
the South)."  ROOTS Festival reviews will be
 
appearing in Village Voice, High Performance and American
 
Theatre later in the fall.
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 6
 
I
 
LOCALS: 
RALEIGH'S
  
CAPITAL AREA ARTS
  
FOUNDATION 
The Raleigh Arts Foundation has changed its name to
 
the Capital Area Arts Foundation to reflect its
 
broadening scope of area arts activities.  A United
 
Arts Fund drive is scheduled for spring of 1988 and
 
the Foundation is now considering applications for
 
membership organizations (which will, of course,
 
become recipients of the United Arts fund).
 Foundation
 
director is Henry Bowers, retired vice-chancellor for
 
student affairs at North Carolina State University and
 
former chairman of the North Carolina Arts Council.
 
MUSIC: 
TAMPA, MIAMI,  
NEW ORLEANS
 
STATES: 
ALABAMA 
AND FLORIDA
 
As I write, Jahja Ling, resident conductor of the
 
Cleveland Orchestra, is preparing to audition for
 
the position of music director of the Florida Orchestra.
 
Ling joins Matthias Bamert, Michael Palmer, Uri Segal
 
and Andrew Litton as the fifth and final candidate for the
 
music director slot.
 
The rapidly expanding Philharmonic Orchestra of Florida
 
(Miami) has recently completed contract negotiations with
 
its musicians covering the period ending September 1
, 1989.
 
Base salary will increase, over a two-year period, from
 
$14,643. for 32 weeks to $19,500.  for 37 weeks.
 The
 
Philharmonic will begin the 1987-88 season with an annual
 
budget of $3.7 million and is expecting to receive "major
 
orchestra" status recognition from ASOL in 1989 -- and
 
Maestro James Judd has been presented with a key to the city
 
of Miami.
 
The New Orleans Symphony Orchestra continues to survive,
 
and last month opened its 1987-88 season with a projected
 
budget of $3.65 million, after a delayed season start
 
and a subscription series trimmed from 16 to 14 concerts.
 
Last year the orchestra came in on budget for the first
 
time in many years, and managed to reduce its long-term
 
deficit by $500,000; but there is still another $3.5
 
million debt and many rough months ahead.
 
Montgomery realtor James Turner Inscoe has been named
 
chairman of the Alabama State Council on the. Arts,
 
replacing Huntsville attorney L
. Tennett Lee III, who
 
had served as chairman for the last two years.
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 7
 
Ormond Beach businessman William T
. Nolan has been
 
named chairman of the Florida Arts Council.
 Nola
 
Firestone, wife of former Secretary of State George
 
Firestone, has been appointed to membership on the
 
Florida Arts Council.
 In other news the Florida Arts
 
Council has established a new line-item policy.
 "Effective
 
with 1987-88 grants, receipt of legislative funding for
 
program support outside the review of the Council precludes
 
the receipt of grant support for the same project from the
 
Division of Cultural Affairs.
 Other grant funding, as
 
determined by the Council, also may be affected."
 
THEATER: 
NORTH CAROLINA 
AND LOUISVILLE 
The North Carolina Shakespeare Festival has appointed Louis
 
Rackoff as artistic director.
 He replaces Malcolm Morrison
 
who left to become director of the National Theatre Con-
servatory at the Denver Arts Centre in Colorado.
 Rackoff
 
will be leaving his post as assistant professor of theatre
 
at the Lincoln Center campus of Fordham University in New
 
York.
 
Actors Theatre of Louisville has recently announced two
 
major grants -- $75,000. from the Mellon Foundation to
 
help the theatre continue "to produce classics, or other
 
earlier lesser known plays, which merit revival," and
 
$75,000. from the Shubert Foundation for general support.
 
VISUAL ARTS: 
(
STILL)
 
ANOTHER PUBLIC ART DEBATE
  
AND MISCELLANEOUS NEWS FROM
 
NEW ORLEANS, WINSTON-SALEM
 
On August 27 New York artist Joel Shapiro unveiled his
 
model for a large-scale public sculpture to be located
 
outside the new coliseum under Charlotte, North Carolina's
 
Percent for Art program.  At $400,000.  it is the program's
 
most expensive commission to date, and at this point, the
 
most controversial.
 Immediately dubbed "Gumby" the proposed
 
sculpture has created a storm of controversy fueled, in part,
 
by a few local radio disc jockeys.
 There has even been
 
opposition from two of nine members of the Merklenburg
 
County Arts Commission.
 At this point the City Council is
 
postponing any final decisions waiting for public emotions
 
to calm.
 Some are worried that the entire Percent for Art
 
Program may be threatened (
see attached article).
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page g
 
0
 
In the meantime, the Arts Council of New Orleans
 
is doing everything right in terms of educating
 
the public about its new Percent for Art Program,
 
and last month launched a series of forums, "In the
 
Public Eye," which will focus on public art from
 
artist selection to artwork creation, from gallery
 
taste to neighborhood involvement, and from "plop
 
art" to collaborative art and design projects.
 
Panelists include sculptors William Crovello and Jesus
 
Bautista Moroles, Southern Living executive editor
 
Philip Morris, Margaret Robinette, public arts admini-
strator from Dallas, New Orleans architect Steven Bingler
 
and public art consultant Grover Mouton.
 
The seventy artists who have received SECCA's  (
Southeastern
 
Center for Contemporary Art) annual Southeast Seven award
 
during the first ten years of the program will exhibit
 
recent works at SECCA (
in Winston-Salem) in December.
 
This is the first retrospective exhibition of Southeast
 
seven winners.
 Over the last decade this project has
 
proven to be a most effective means of identifying Southeastern
 
artists of exceptional talent.
 The artists receive fellowships
 
as well as having their work featured in a SECCA-sponsored
 
travelling exhibition.
 
MEETINGS/EVENTS 
John Finch, Alabama Public Television Network, Montgomery,
 
Alabama
 
Southern Arts Exchange, New Orleans, Louisiana
 
NASAA Annual Meeting, Nashville, Tennessee
 
Alabama State Council on the Arts Quarterly Meeting, Montgomery,
 
Alabama
 
Southern Arts Federation Rural and Minorities Initiative
 
Orientation Meeting, Penn Center, Frogmore, South Carolina
 
Bill Kornrich, Director, Rose Center, Morristown, Tennessee
 
Worth Long, Atlanta Media Project, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Leah Webb, Times Eight  (
artist organization), Birmingham, AL
 
Black Community Advisory Committee Meeting, Montgomery
 
Museum of Fine Arts, Montgomery, Alabama
 
NAAO Southeast Regional Conference, New Orleans, Louisiana
 
Louise Shaw, Director, NEXUS Contemporary Art Center,
 
Atlanta, Georgia
 
Henry Willett
 
October Report
 
Page 9
 
M.K. Wegmann, Contemporary Arts Center, New Orleans,
 
Louisiana
 
John O
'Neal, Junebug Productions, New Orleans, Louisiana
 
Roby Cogswell, Folk Arts Coordinator, Tennessee Arts
 
Commission, Nashville, Tennessee
 
Al Head, Executive Director, Alabama Council on the Arts,
 
Montgomery, Alabama
 
Alabama/Tennessee Football Game, Legion Field, Birmingham,
 
Alabama  (Alabama 41 - Tennessee 22)
 
9
 
Henry Z
^
:illett
 
December Report
 
Page 3
 
FOLK ARTS
 
In facility-poor Gold Coast Florida, Broward County
 
has announced the formation of the Performing Arts
 
Center Authority to begin raising money for construction
 
of a major performing arts center  in Ft.  Lauderdale.
 
Endowment Inter-Arts panelist Sidney McQueen has been
 
named executive director of the Center Authority.
 A
 
design team has begun to describe the proposed center
 
which will contain 185,000 square feet and will include
 
a 2,800 seat theatre,  a 600 seat theatre,  and a 250 seat
 
studio theatre in addition to support areas.
 
Southeast Florida, with no real performing arts complex,
 
is already putting in bids for use of the center.
 
Producer Zev Bufman wants the theater  100 days a year
 
for Broadway musicals.
 Judy Drucker wants  it for her
 
concert series.
 
So far,  $15 million has been committed toward construction
 
of the center,  $5 million each from the city,  county and
 
state.
 
The problems and complexities of marketing folk art
 
continue to perplex and distress me.
 In a June Business
 
Week which only recently came to my attention,  I found a
 
terribly patronizing and exploitative article  (
attached)
 
entitled "Finding Folk Art With A Future."
 The article
 
included tips on how to out-bargain traditional artists
 
and how to get state folk arts coordinators to "tell you
 
where the action  is."
 For the sake of the future of folk
 
art and for the sake of preserving the artistic  integrity
 
of working traditional artists,  we must explore the es-
tablishment of more sensitive mechanisms and institutions
 
for delivering the products of traditional artists to
 
folk art collectors.
 Unfortunately,  there are non-profit
 
arts  institutions outside this region which have been
 
grossly exploiting traditional artists from this region,
 
and managing,  all the while,  to establish themselves as
 
the self-appointed determiners of collectibility in
 
American folk art.
 When these institutions were dealing
,
 
almost exclusively with antique folk art the situation
 
was not so problemmatic,  but in recent years there has
 
occurred dramatically-increasing interest in living folk
 
artists,  and exploitation is beginning to become a critical
 
issue.
 
Last month the Alabama Council on the Arts held its first
 
state Showcase of the Arts presenting Alabama artists to
 
the Governor,  first lady and other government dignitaries.
 
Featured were a number of Alabama's traditional artists
 
including National Heritage Fellowship winner Dewey
 
Williams and the Wiregrass Sacred Harp Singers,  the Foster
 
Family string band,  the Shelby County Big Four  (acappella
 
gospel quartet),  and fiddler Al Lester.
 At the Governor's
 
mansion reception following the performance,  several of
 
the musicians were asked by the Governor to bring their
 
instruments  in and continue the festivities.
 Not since
 
the reign of  "Big Jim" Folsom and his campaign band The
 
Strawberry Pickers has the Governor's mansion hosted
 
I
 
Henry Willett
 
December Report
 
Page 4
 
9
 
MUSEUMS
 
good old time Alabama music.
 SAA director Al Head is
 
placing the state's traditional arts in a central profile.
 
Folk arts will be a major theme at this year's state
 
arts conference in late February.
 
Last month the newly-expanded Mint Museum in Charlotte
 
opened its doors to much fanfare after two years of
 
major renovation.
 The new building was particularly
 
gratifying in that,  just five years ago, Charlotte
 
voters had overwhelmingly rejected a $10.4 million bond
 
issue to revamp the city-owned museum.
 Then came the
 
donation of the Harry Dalton art collection, mostly
 
early 20th century American, with the stipulation that
 
a new wing must be built to house it.
 A new bond issue
 
was passed overwhelmingly and renovations began.
 The
 
museum has more than doubled its space from 11,000
 
square feet to 26,000 square feet.
 
The Tennessee Arts Commission has announced grantees in
 
its new Heritage of Music Challenge grants program.
 The
 
big winners are the orchestras in Nashville and Memphis,
 
each recipients of $820,000.  grants.
 Knoxville and
 
Chattanooga will receive $430,000.  each.
 Smaller
 
orchestras will be eligible to apply for grants ranging
 
from $1,000.  to $15,000.
 The grants must be matched
 
two-for-one.
 The grants are the result of a special
 
$2.6 million appropriation from the Tennessee General
 
Assembly "to celebrate Tennessee's outstanding musical
 
heritage."
 Come on now.
 I have to admit I have real
 
problems with this one.
 Tennessee has a truly "outstanding
 
musical heritage," but it is not the state's orchestras.
 
It is the fiddlers of Appalachian east Tennessee,  the
 
fine string bands and duet vocalists of the Cumberland
 
plateau,  the blues artists of Memphis,  the gospel quartets
 
of Nashville.
 Nashville Symphony director Matthew Maddin's
 
idea of celebrating the state's "outstanding musical
 
heritage"  is "delivering indigenous music in a classical
 
style.
 We will be picking up on the Memphis blues,
 
appalachian folk tunes,  the Nashville Sound and Southern
 
gospel."
 Tennessee has dozens and dozens of excellent
 
living artists in all these genres needing and deserving
 
of support.
 There certainly are more "world-class"
 
traditional fiddlers and blues quitarists in Tennessee
 
than there are "world-class" classical violinists and
 
cellists.
 With apologies for my emotional tone I'm
 
afraid this grants program may border on cultural rape.
 
In what has to be an exciting and productive merger in
 
Sarasota,  the Florida West Coast Symphony,  the New
 
College Music Festival,  the New College String Quartet,
 
The Florida Woodwind Quintet,  the Florida West Coast
 
Chamber Orchestra and the Florida West Coast Youth
 
Orchestra have consolidated to become Florida West Coast
 
Music,  Inc.
 
J
 
National Endowment f
or t
he Arts
 Henry Willett
 
Regional Representative
 
September 8
, 1988
 
MEMORANDUM
 
TO:
 Frank Hodsoll, Chairman
 
Jeanne Rhinelander, Special Assistan
t
 
FROM:
 Henry Willett
.
`, Regional Representative
 
RE:
 Monthly Report - AUGUST, 1988
 
SOME PERSONAL THOUGHTS ON
 
ARTS DELIVERY AND THE MEDIA
 
Last night Montgomery television station WSFA (
the
 
local NBC affiliate) aired a half-hour special
 
production on F
.  Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald and
 
their lives in Montgomery.
 They analyzed F
.  Scott's
 
writing and Zelda's painting.
 They interviewed local
 
surviving friends and relatives.
 They tied Scott and
 
Zelda's lives and work to Montgomery of the 1920s and
 
1930s.
 It was an interesting piece (
sort of a mini
 
"American Masters" approach).
 It was produced by WSFA
 
with urging from a local citizens group that is organizing
 
a Fitzgerald Museum in a house the couple once lived in.
 
Some ten or twelve years ago I was involved in a project
 
with a local Huntsville, Alabama commercial television
 
station to produce a documentary program on several
 
traditional artists in north Alabama.
 It was an un-
pretentious, inexpensive piece where we visited several
 
artists in their homes.
 It was well received.
 
In my monthly report for June, 1988, I wrote about a
 
music festival at Appalshop in Whitesburg, Kentucky,
 
and about Appalshop's recently-acquired radio station
 
WMMT, and about how the recent success of the music
 
festival was a direct result of its live coverage on
 
WMMT and WMMT's effective cultivation of the local
 
audience.
 
These are all little examples of effectively utilizing
 
the media for arts delivery.
 And all these examples
 
are, significantly, examples where local initiative
 
made use of locally controlled media.
 I think, perhaps,
 
as arts administrators, we have been guilty of focusing
 
3
10 N
. Hull S
treet, Montgomery, A
labama 3
6104 (
205) 2
64-3797
 
Alabama, F
lorida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee
 
Virginia, West Virginia
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Two
 
too exclusively on the overwhelming frustrations of
 
working with the national broadcast media, and have
 
ignored the potential of greater cooperative efforts
 
with local media.
 
The non-profit arts are developed, nurtured, supported
 
and presented in local communities.
 Performance halls,
 
exhibition spaces, and, to a lesser extent, the print
 
media, are locally controlled and run.
 Their local
 
proprietorship has allowed them all to provide, in one
 
way or another, mechanisms for delivery of the non-
profit arts.
 It seems to me that if the electronic
 
media is to serve as an effective mechanism for arts
 
delivery we must find and cultivate that same local
 
proprietorship.
 
In the case of Appalshop's WMMT, local folks feel a
 
sense of aesthetic and programming control.
 The station
 
is locally owned and run and is responsive to the
 
community.
 It serves effectively both as a means for
 
local aesthetic validation and self-celebration, and as
 
a delivery mechanism for non-local aesthetic expressions.
 
WMMT's, however, are rare exceptions; though that was not
 
always the case.
 
In the 1930s, a time of widespread electrification of
 
the South, much of the electronic media (
then radio)
 
programming was locally determined.
 Atlanta's WSB,
 
Nashville's WSM, Montgomery's WSFA (where in 1937 a young
 
14-year old Montgomery County boy, King Hiram "Hank"
 
Williams, found his first media exposure through a $15
 
twice-a-week radio singing gig), and countless other
 
Southern radio stations served as effective delivery
 
mechanisms for art  (
chiefly music).
 Then, the electronic
 
media allowed folks throughout the South to communicate
 
to each other in a wonderfully-rich regional musical
 
voice.
 But after World War II, and the advent of
 
television, the electronic media became increasingly
 
centralized, now serving a national audience with an
 
ever-lowering common denominator of aesthetic mediocrity,
 
and becoming a system with little room for local aesthetic
 
or programming decision making.
 The non-profit arts,
 
with their local community orientation, have been
 
effectively cut off from access to the national electronic
 
media.
 
Alan Lomax has called this phenomenon a "grey out... which,
 
if it continues unchecked, will fill our human skies with
 
the smog of the phoney and cut the families of men off
 
from a vision of their own cultural constellations.
 A
 
mismanaged, over-centralized communication system is
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Three
 
imposing a few standardized, mass-produced and
 
cheapened cultures everywhere.... One can already
 
sense the oppressive dullness and psychic distress
 
of those areas where centralized music industries,
 
exploiting the star system and controlling the
 
communication system, put the local musicians out of
 
work.... Not only is such a doctrine anti-human, it
 
is very bad science.
 It is false Darwinism applied
 
to culture -- especially to its expressive systems
 
such as music, language and art."
 
Good art is endowed with authenticity, and the national
 
media, it seems, works against authenticity, creating a
 
phenomenon Lomax refers to as cultural "smog of the
 
phoney," and Miami writer Joel Achenbach calls "Creeping
 
Surrealism" where corporate cookie giant Pepperidge Farm
 
openly advertises that their "Nantucket" Chocolate Chunk
 
Cookies are given (
by a machine) "rugged, irregular
 
shapes just as if someone had lovingly shaped each
 
cookie by hand."  With recognized semantic conflict
 
I
'll call this phenomenon "fake authenticity."
 
Achenbach wonders if those AT&T commercials, with the
 
jerky camera work suggestive of naked reality, aren't
 
perhaps filmed by a camera "that is not hand held at all,
 
but is attached to a complex machine that exactly simulates
 
the jostling motions of human camera operators  (more fake
 
authenticity)."  He suggests that "we have entered a
 
mysterious phase in which we passively accept a cartoon
 
version of reality that is projected upon us by unreliable,
 
deceptive, and sometimes diabolical media."
 
Diabolical or not, the national commercial television
 
media does not present itself as an effective delivery
 
mechanism for the non-profit arts.
 In its over-
centralized structure it seems to have become, with
 
rare exceptions, a forum for the bland and cheapened,
 
lacking in power, place, art or authenticity.
 Public
 
television has certainly been a more effective tool
 
for non-profit art delivery, but in its over-centralized
 
structure, where local stations are mostly becoming
 
satellites of PBS, it too seems to be developing its
 
unique variety of blandness where, if it isn't British
 
or underwater, it's rarely seen.
 Radio, for its part,
 
has proven more innovative and creative in its efforts
 
to serve as an effective arts-delivery mechanism.
 It
 
is no coincidence, in my view, that radio has also
 
maintained, in a relative sense, more local programming
 
proprietorship than has television.
 I repeat my oft-
stated assertion that radio is vastly under-utilized.
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Four
 
So, should we make more effort to utilize television
 
in the transmission and delivery of the non-profit arts?
 
Television can never substitute for the real thing.
 
As with trains, sex, and baseball, being there is a lot
 
more fun than just watching on television.
 But in a
 
culture where reality is defined and validated through
 
television, I can't help but feel that the non-profit
 
arts must develop a mechanism for more effectively
 
utilizing television.
 Not only can television serve
 
as an arts-delivery mechanism, it tends to validate
 
the artistic expression and develop audiences through
 
the whetting of the audiences' aesthetic appetites.
 
If there are any opportunities for developing more
 
productive projects of arts delivery through television,
 
the best opportunities, I feel, are at the regional,
 
state and local levels; and there have been all too few
 
efforts at those levels.
 Regional organizations and
 
state arts agencies can broaden their focus beyond the
 
media artists and develop more systematic partnerships
 
with those who control media programming.
 With real
  
joint planning, backed by real funding, regional organi-
zations and state arts agencies can put together regional
 
and state series of arts programs.  And local arts
 
agencies, most of whom have had no contact with local
 
television media beyond begging for PSA plugs, can
 
broker project development, fundraising and program
 
production between local arts organizations and local
 
television media.
 And there is a whole universe of
 
opportunities to deliver the arts through videocassette
 
production and distribution.
 Those opportunities have
 
barely begun to be realized.
 
With the explosion in cable television, community
 
access stations, and videocassette player ownership,
 
proactive efforts by state and local arts agencies
 
can potentially be productive.
 Perhaps initiatives
 
can be developed designed to stimulate such proactive
 
efforts.
 
DANCE: 
MORE PRAISE
 
FOR VILLELLA AND
  
MIAMI CITY BALLET
 
The Miami City Ballet, just two-years old, is continuing
 
to receive heaps of praises, as is evidenced by the
 
reviews of its recent performances "up North."  Dance
  
magazine has said, "The look of the troupe is clean and
 
vital, post-Balanchine in style, elegant in spirit."
 
The Buffalo News said the Miami City Ballet had "the mark
 
of masters.... a living tribute to the legacy of George
 
Balanchine and to the stunning artistic direction of
 
Edward Vill
.ella."  But perhaps of most significance is
 
the fact that the company has the look and feel of Miami.
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Five
 
According to the Boston Globe "the several Hispanic
 
company members and the Latin-flavored dances of
 
resident choreographer Jimmy Gamonet De Los Heros make
 
for a troupe the city's chamber of commerce could use
 
in ads."  Jacob's Pillow executive director Liz Thompson
 
said the Miami company is "what I
've been looking for a
 
long time:
 a color-blind ballet company."  See attached
 
article.
 
EXPANSION ARTS/
 
INTER-ARTS:   
NATIONAL BLACK 
ARTS FESTIVAL
 
FACILITIES:  
STILL NO DECISIONS
 
IN MIAMI
 
Atlanta's much publicized National Arts Festival has
 
come and gone.
 Regrettably, I was only able to attend
 
a few of the opening events because the festival conflicted
 
with the August Council meeting.
 By most accounts, the
 
Festival was a success.
 Total attendance was close to
 
250,000.
 The festival broke even financially.
 A variety
 
of talented black artists was presented in a variety of
 
formats at venues throughout the city.
 The festival
 
achieved a large measure of pride for Atlanta and for
 
blacks.
 
Aside from the never-to-be-settled argument over the
 
relative merits of segregating artists, most of the
 
criticism centered on what was perceived to be a lack of
 
overall cohesive artistic vision.
 The premieres of George
 
Faison's "Apollo" and Charles Fuller's "Sally," the two
 
headliner events, both appeared to be not-quite-finished
 
works in progress.
 And there was lacking an overall
 
artistic vision relating the many performances to each
 
other and to the visual arts exhibitions.
 The festival
 
had no single artistic director, and probably could have
 
used one.
 
All in all I think Michael Lomax and Fulton County Arts
 
Council can be quite pleased with their first effort.
 
I look forward to the 1990 edition of the every-other-
year event.
 
While up-the-coast neighbors Fort Lauderdale and Palm
 
Beach have broken ground and started construction on
 
new performing arts centers, Miami continues to struggle
 
with finding agreement on a site and cost.  Miami City
 
Mayor Xavier Suarez would like the complex on waterfront
 
development Watson Island.  Metro Mayor Steve Clark is
 
staying out of it.
 The Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce'
 
downtown development New World Center Action Committee has
 
been criticized for lack of leadership but, to its credit,
 
is the only group which has called together arts organization
 
leaders to hear what they need.
 Cen Trust CEO David Paul
 
wants the complex in Bicentennial Park, but has been burned
 
of late over the revelations of his panel's secret meetings.
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Six
 
Ted Arison, founder of the New World Symphony, is said
 
to be favoring a downtown site.  Most of the urban
 
planners have recommended a Biscayne Boulevard site.
 
And now there are new proposals to build the performing
 
arts center out at Miami Beach next to the under-renovation
 
Jackie Gleason Center for the Performing Arts and the
 
Lincoln Road Arts District.
 There is also disagreement
 
on the Center's cost, with estimates ranging from $47
 
million to $75 million.
 All I can say is "Stay tuned."
 
LOCALS: 
BITS AND
 
PIECES FROM NASHVILLE,
  
MEMPHIS AND HAMPTON ROADS
 
Up to now, the city of Nashville has not appropriated
 
money to the arts.  Mayor Bill Boner last year appointed
 
a Cultural Arts Task Force,and, based upon its recommendations,
 
has allocated $500,000. to the Metro Nashville Arts Commission.
 
In the past the Arts Commission has not served as an umbrella
 
organization to area arts non-profits; but with the appropri-
ation and the Task Force recommendation "that all services,
 
programs, and city funds allocated to the arts be channeled
 
through the Metro Nashville Arts Commission" that will all
 
change.
 
Babs Feibelman, formerly director of operations for the
 
Memphis Arts Council, has been named the Council's
 
president (
read executive director) replacing Philip
 
Converse "who is leaving to pursue other opportunities."
 
The Cultural Alliance of Greater Hampton Roads has been
 
going through rough times in the last year.
 A controversial
 
ticket subsidy program, Culture Key, was eating up one-
third of the Alliance's $300,000. budget.
 It also ate up
 
the executive director who was forced to resign, and Culture
 
Key self-destructed.
 A year later, with a stripped-down
 
budget of $90,000. and a stripped-down staff of two, the
 
Alliance has redefined its role, is directing most of its
 
energies toward advocacy, and reportedly "now has the
 
opportunity to realize its original promise and premise."
 
MUSEUMS:
 FT.
 
LAUDERDALE UPDATE 
A few months ago I wrote of the severe financial and
 
management problems of the two-year old Ft. Lauderdale
 
Museum of Art.
 The problems have gone from bad to worse.
 
To save money the museum has temporarily closed its doors.
 
Since December the museum has been functioning under a
 
volunteer director with no museum management experience.
 
Board president Mike Egan does not want to continue to
 
serve Z
is  president, but can find no replacement.
 And
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Seven
 
last month well-traveled museum administrator Michael
 
Botwinick turned down an offer to become the museum's
 
director.
 The museum is in need of a major re-evaluation
 
of its entire operation.
 The $28,000. paid to a Chicago
 
search firm might better have been spent on a high-powered
 
consultant tellingthem how to clean up their act  (
see
 
attached article).
 
MEDIA/MUSIC (An 
example of the kind
 
of thing I was
 
speaking of in the
 
beginning of this
 
report)
 
STATES: 
RECORD FUNDS
 
FOR TENNESSEE AND
 
RETIREMENT IN WEST
  
VIRGINIA
 
The Lonesome Pine Special, a performance series of mostly
 
Southern tradition-based music masterminded by director
 
of folklife Dick Van Kleeck four years ago, has been
 
the most successful venture of the Kentucky Center for
 
the Arts.
 Featuring blues, bluegrass, zydeco, Cajun,
 
new country, and voodoo rock and roll, taped productions
 
of the live performances have been distributed to Kentucky's
 
public television stations for the last year and a half.
 
Last month SECA (
the Southern Educational Communications
 
Association) picked up the package and began distribution
 
of the series, via satellite, to stations across the U
.S.
 
and Canada.
 
The Lonesome Pine Series is obviously meeting a demand.
 
According to SECA, most new series are picked up by
 
about 30 stations.
 Lonesome Pine has been picked up by
 
130 stations from California to Maine and Alaska to Puerto
 
Rico.
 Only one other series, Lawrence Welk (
picked up by
 
169 stations), has had a higher initialresponse in the
 
history of SECA, and Lawrence Welk can hardly be called
 
new considering its long commercial television history.
 
Performers include the Bobs, Zachary Richard, Lyle Lovett,
 
Koko Taylor, Mark O
'Connor, Tracy Nelson, Edgar Meyer,
 
New Grass Revival, Son Seals, David Grisman, "Daddy G
."
 
Boege, Cyril Neville, Marcia Ball, The O
'Kanes, Awasa
 
Miller, Charmaine Neville, and Reggie Houston (
see
 
attached article).
 Funding for production and distribution
 
has been provided by the state, KET, the Bank of Louisville,
 
the Mary and Barry Bingham Sr. Fund, Brown Forman Corp.,
 
Citizens Fidelity Foundation, Commonwealth Insurance, First
 
National Bank, Humana, and Liberty National.
 
In its FY'89 budget request the Tennessee Arts Commission
 
asked for an additional $1 million for its major groups
 
general operating support orgnizations, and an additional
 
$1 million to be allocated on a per capita county basis
 
across the state to organizations requesting project support.
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Eight
 
One million dollars in new funds was appropriated to
 
the Commission under the per capita strategy, now
 
determined not by county but by the nine state
 
development districts.
 Despite their being an effective
 
political strategy I am wary of per capita appropriations
 
in their false assumption that worthy artistic enterprises
 
correspond to population density; however, Tennessee's
 
per capita allocations determined by nine development
 
districts should prove less troublesome than a county
 
per capita system.
 The alloction of more than $2 million
 
in grant funds more than doubles what the Commission has
 
ever been able to do in the past.
 
Jim Andrews, director of the West Virginia Arts and
 
Humanities Division since 1976 has announced his
 
retirement effective October 31, 1988.
 
VISUAL ARTS:  
GEORGIA 
I
'm not aware of an Art Acquisition Program quite like
 
that of the Georgia Council for the Arts.
 The state's
 
artists like it.
 The state's non-profit organizations
 
like it.
 It provides $80,000.  in annual sales.
 And
 
it's amazingly simple.
 
Artists apply to the program providing slides of work.
 
Last year 281 artists applied; after jurying about 20%
 
were accepted for the sales end of the program.
 State
 
non-profits apply to the buyer's end of the program on a
 
first-come first-served basis receiving up to $1,000.
 
from the Georgia Council to pay for up to one-half the
 
purchase price of a single work.
 The Georgia Council
 
commits $20,000.
 Then, on a scheduled day, the artists
 
bring their work, price it, and display it.
 The approved
 
non-profit buyers then come and shop taking turns making
 
selections in a lottery-determined order.
 Last year the
 
non-profits purchased nearly $40,000. of artwork; the
 
Georgia Council spent an additional $40,000. to purchase
 
work to be exhibited in state office buildings, leading
 
to a total of $80,000.
 In addition, those artists who
 
are accepted into the acquisition program are given the
 
opportunity to be included in the Atlanta College of Art
 
Slide Registry.
 
It's my understanding that Georgia's most reknown visual
 
artists don't participate, that the program is most
 
effective at serving those talented and emerging artists
 
eager to find a market.
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Nine
 
A Curious Press Release
  
Postscript from the In-Business/
 
Out-of-Business New Orleans
  
Symphony Orchestra
  
"The attached release about the 1988 S
ymphony
 
Run includes mention of a concert t
o be performed
 
by '
members of the New Orleans Symphony.'
 To
 
help us avoid confusing the public, please try to
 
use that wording in any references to this concert.
 
Do not refer to '
a concert by the New Orleans
 
Symphony' or '
a s
ymphony concert;' this i
s inaccurate.
 
Using the phrase '
members of i
s the only correct way
 
to put i
t.
 
This caution i
s necessitated by the continuing
 
uncertainty of the present and future s
tatus of
 
the orchestra.  Your cooperation in this situation
 
i
s greated appreciated."
 
QUOTE OF THE MONTH 
"
If she can sing, then my butt's a typewriter."
 
`Atlanta columnist Lewis Grizzard's boyhood recollection
 
of his grandfather's comments upon watching an opera
 
diva on the Ed Sullivan Show in 1950s Moreland, Georgi a
 
MEETINGS/EVENTS 
S
outhern Arts Federation Board Meeting, Orlando, Florida
 
Carol Conway, Director of Research, S
outhern Growth
 
Policies Board, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Ruby Lerner, arts consultant, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Jon Levingston, chairman, Mississippi Arts Commission,
 
Jackson, Mississippi
 
Frank Ratka, Executive Director, Georgia Council for
 
the Arts, Tucker, Georgia
 
Current Exhibitions, Orlando Museum of Art, Orlanda, Florida
 
Alternate ROOTS Annual Meeting, Black Mountain, North
 
Carolina
 
Dotty McIntyre, Dean of Fine Arts, Cleveland Community
 
College, Shelby, North Carolina
 
Dudley Cocke, Director, Roadside Theatre, Whitesburg, KY
 
Ralph and Deborah Hils, Highlander Research Center,
 
New Market, Tennessee
 
Henry Willett
 
AUGUST Report
 
Page Ten
 
"Incognita," Nita Hardy, Atlanta, Georgia
 
"3 Bikers and Other Stories," Joseph Sobol,
 
Asheville, North Carolina
 
"Apples in the Fall," Roadside Theatre, Whitesburg,
 
Kentucky
 
"The First Fish to Walk on Land," Louise Udaykee,
 
Atlanta, Georgia
 
"The Rain Drop Waltz," The Road Company, Johnson City,
 
Tennessee
 
Anton Haardt Retrospective, Green Garden Gallery,
 
Montgomery, Alabama
 
National 
.
•
 f
or 
•
 
u
 •
 • n
 
on
 
Francis S.M.  Hodsoll,  
Chairman
 
Jeanne Rhinelander, Special
 
to the Chairman
 
Heide
•
 
to the Regional
 
Representative
 
August was a slow,  hot month in New York.
 I didn't see too many
 
interesting articles.
 
attached
 
the New York
•
 on
 
the Arts  1988-89 allocation plan and  primary
 
list for 
•ur  informatio
 
T
va
hr
ii
s 
om
us
onth I
've clipped many articles on
 
•
 • 
occurring
 
Juan.
 Many of 
projects have sl• 
• down
 
due to bureaucratic conflicts
 
archaeological  finds  that have been discovered
 
in the areas where these renova t
4  ons 
are
 
taking place.
 
One $50 million project which has received
 
quite a lot of • 
Quinto
 
Centenario" to be built  in honor of Puerto
 
Rico's celebration
• • 
of 
discovery by
 
Columbus 500 years ago.
project is
 
directed  by 
- 
•
Preservation
 
Office 
Fortaleza
in La 
• the Institute of
 
Puerto  Rican Culture which is approving
 
major decisions.
 
The project includes
• 
• 
of
 
parking lot
•  San Juan into a multilevel
 
plaza built on 
•
 . of
 
underground parking garage and the restoration
 
of 
• historic buildings including
•
 
'
••
 :
1 
1
 • 
1
1 
• 1 1
 
-2—
 
de la Beneficencia which will be the new home
 
for the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture.
 
The nearby building that currently houses the
 
Institute will be converted into a museum when
 
all the restorations are complete.
 Everyone
 
is quite pleased with the plans except for
 
some archaeologists who are concerned about
 
the underground parking garage.
 
MUSEUM
 
THEATER
 
MUSIC
 
Philadelphia
 
New York
 
VISUAL ARTS
 
The first meeting of the Massachusetts MoCA
 
Cultural Development Commission was held in
 
North Adams,  Massachusetts.
 This commisssion
 
of nine art experts will help launch the
 
largest museum of contemporary art in the
 
world.
 Their first project  is to "supervise a
 
feasibility study that will  spell out capital
 
costs,  operating costs,  environmental impact
 
and availability of transportation."
 
The McCarter Theater of Princeton,  New Jersey
 
has received a $1 million grant  from the New
 
Jersey State Council on the Arts which
 
includes $400,000 for the establishment of a
 
resident acting company.
 
Michael Korn,  the founder of the Bach Festival
 
in Philadelphia has resigned.
 His resignation
 
represents a change in direction  for the
 
Festival.
 The Festival will become more
 
independent of the Philadelphia Singers,  the
 
Festival's resident chorus which Korn also
 
directs.
 The distinction between the Festival
 
and the Singers had been unclear to some
 
funders.
 The Festival will be presenting
 
smaller works utilizing guest artists rather
 
than producing large scale works itself.
 
According to an editorial from the New York
  
Times (attached),  it seems that surprisingly
 
some commuters are not too happy with the free
 
music concerts happening in the New York City
 
subway stations.
 
The Philadelphia arts community is very
 
healthy according to an article in the
 
Philadelphia Inquirer. 
Numerous opportunities
 
exist for local and regional artists.
 The
 
cutbacks in the programming at Temple
 
University Gallery noted last month have not
 
appeared to adversely effect the community.
 
-3-
ARTS-IN-EDUCATION
 Albany's Capital Repertory Company has a very
 
successful outreach program.
 The program's
 
goal is to "bring the experience of good
 
theater to school children as a part of their
 
overall education."
 
FACILITIES
 
Controversy has risen in Puerto Rico,  over
 
Senate President Miguel Hernandez Agosto's
 
idea to name the Performing Arts Center
 
(Bellas Artes)  after the Salsa pioneer Rafael
 
Cortijo.
 Most musicians feel that while
 
Cortijo was a major influence in Puerto Rican
 
music,  to name an arts center after him would
 
be unfair to other Puerto Rican artists and
 
art forms.
 Thoughts on other ways to
 
commemorate him were mentioned in the article.
 
The Performing Arts Center's operations have
 
also received attention this month.
 A report
 
issued by the Office of the Comptroller "shows
 
irregularities in Performing Arts Center
 
operations,  including issuing maintenance and
 
construction contracts worth over $1 million
 
without due bids and sloppy record-keeping on
 
payments by producers using the facility."
 
South o
f
 Art
 
By HENRY WILLETT
 
I
n 1
974, Walker P
crcy, w
ith a
 b
it o
f s
ubtle e
quivoca-
t
i
on,
 wrote, "Well, t
he
 s
o-called
 S
outher
n
 t
h
ing
 i
s
 o
ver
 a
nd
 
d
one w
ith, I
 t
h
ink." Of
 c
ourse h
e was wrong. The S
outh-
e
rn t
h
ing i
s
 a
s
 s
t
rong a
s
 i
t
 h
as e
ver b
een.This p
ast y
ear s
aw
 
t
he publication o
fthe 1
,600-page Encyclopedia o
fSouthern
 
Culture, a
nd a
 major Hollywood r
evival o
f t
he c
inemat
ic
 
"
Southern," f
rom Mi
ssissippi Burning
, Heart o
f
 Dixie,
 
a
nd GreatBallsofFire, t
o
 I
n Country, MisFirecracker, a
nd
 
Driving
 Mi
ss
 Daisy
. S
teel
 Magnolias
 was t
he most popular
 
s
t
age p
roduction i
n America l
a
st y
ear. Though of
ten
 
f
l
attered, we k
now t
he S
teel Magnolias a
udiences i
n
 New
 
York o
r Chicago o
r Los Angeles a
ren't l
aughing f
or t
he
 
s
ame r
easons t
he Nachitoches, Louisiana, a
udience i
s
 
l
aughing.
 
This r
egional ambivalence i
s
 t
ypical when S
outherners
 
s
howcase t
heir
 c
ultural e
xpression f
or t
he r
est o
fthe world.
 
S
everal y
ears a
go
 At
lantans h
ad h
igh hopes t
hat S
o
 L
ong
 On
 
L
onely S
treet
, a
n A
lliance Theater p
roduct
ion o
f a
 n
ew
 
work b
yAtlanta
 p
laywr
ight
 S
andra
 Deer,
 would b
e t
he p
lay
 
t
hat would w
in o
ver t
he New York c
r
it
ics t
o S
outhern-
p
roduced d
rama. Lonely S
treet h
ad r
eceived r
ave r
eviews
 
during i
t
s
 p
rc-New
 York r
un i
n
 Boston, b
ut t
he New
 York
 
c
r
itics d
id n
ot s
hare t
heir Boston c
olleagues' opinions.
 
F
rank R
ich o
f t
he New York T
imes c
oncluded t
hat "
l
ike
 
t
hat
 o
ther
 r
ecentAtlanta e
xport, New Coke, t
h
is
 p
lay
 i
s
 n
ot
 
t
he r
eal t
hing." The New York P
ost's C
live B
arnes c
a
lled
 
t
he p
lay "
preposterous hokum-Souther
n f
r
ied c
hicken
 
w
ithout t
he c
hicken."
 
The A
tlanta c
r
itics r
esponded t
o
 t
he New
 York c
r
itics i
n
 
k
ind. Helen Smith o
f t
he A
tlanta J
ournal r
eferred t
o t
he
 
"
r
igged m
indset" t
hat s
corns S
outhern p
laywr
ights a
nd
 
c
haracterized New York a
s "
the most a
rrogant a
nd t
he
 
most p
rovincial p
lace i
n t
he world."
 
We Southerners, i
t s
eems, h
ave h
istorically r
eacted
 
r
a
ther d
efensively when c
onfronted w
ith c
r
it
icism. I
n
 
1
911, Georgia-born University o
f F
lorida p
rofessor
 
Enoch Banks was f
i
red af
ter s
uggesting s
omewhat t
imidly
 
t
hat i
n
 t
he C
ivil War "
the North was r
e
latively i
n
 t
he r
ight,
 
while t
he S
outh was r
e
latively i
n t
he wrong." Even Mr.
 
Hank Willett i
s
 t
he
 f
ormer r
egional r
epresentative t
o
 t
he
 
S
outhern
 s
tatesfor
 t
he National
 Endow
 mentfor
 t
he
 Arts
. He
 
h
as r
ecently l
e
ft t
hat p
osition t
o o
rganize and d
irect t
he
 
Alabama C
enter
 f
or T
raditional Culture
.
 
B
anks's "
relat
ives" weren't e
nough t
o s
ave h
is p
osition.
 
When t
he A
labama S
hakespeare F
estival r
eceived c
r
ib-
c
i
sm f
or
 i
t
s
 p
resentation o
fa c
ountry-pop musical b
ased o
n
 
l
i
fe i
n
 r
ural Georgia, a
 p
roduction c
onsidered i
nappropri-
a
te f
a
re a
nd s
omehow b
eneath t
he d
ignity o
f t
he s
tate
 
S
hakespeare t
heater, i
t
 r
e
lied on t
hat t
r
ied a
nd t
rue New
 
York l
egitimacy t
e
st — r
ave r
eviews i
n t
he B
ig Apple a
nd
 
a
 Tony award nomination — t
o j
ustify i
t
s p
rogramming
 
d
ecision.
 
S
outherners r
e
ly a
l
l t
oo h
eavily on o
thers t
o s
e
lect,
 
p
ackage, market a
nd c
r
itically-legitimize Southern c
ul- `
.
 
t
ural e
xpression, r
esult
ing i
n a
 c
ommodity-marketing o
f
 
S
outhern c
ulture t
hat a
voids t
h
is c
ulture's power a
nd
 
c
omplexity, i
nstead c
apitalizing on t
he r
egion's s
t
igmatiz-
i
ng s
t
ereotypes — p
overty, p
arochialism, e
ccentricity a
nd
 
r
etrograde r
e
ligion. Nowhere i
s
 t
h
is more e
vident t
han i
n
 
t
he f
r
audulent, p
rof
it-driven market
ing o
f t
he s
o-called
 
"
outsider" a
rtists f
rom t
he S
outh — Howard F
inster f
rom
 
Georgia, S
am Doyle f
rom S
outh Carolina, Mose Tolliver
 
a
nd Thornton D
ial f
rom A
labama, Zebedee Armstrong
 
f
rom Mississippi, a
nd a
 h
andful o
f o
thers
.
 Many o
f t
hese
 
a
r
tists a
re b
lack. Most a
rc poor, u
neducated a
nd
 f
rom r
ural .
 
a
reas; b
ut t
hey're making a
 h
andful o
f
 money f
or a
 h
andful
 
o
f
 g
allery owners. American s
tudies s
cholar J
ohn V
lach, o
f
 
George Washington University, h
as c
a
lled t
he whole
 
p
henomenon a
 "
fraud p
erpetrated b
y t
he New York a
rt
 
e
stablishment," `
The F
inger-Painted Word' (
in r
eference
 
t
o
 Tom Wolfe's T
he Painted Word) "
a c
ommercial e
xploi-
t
a
tion o
f
 t
he s
tereotypical v
iew o
f
 S
outherners a
s
 weird, a
s
 
i
nbred, f
u
ll o
f
 p
ellagra a
nd c
holera a
nd a
ny o
ther d
isease,
 
b
iological o
r p
sychological." V
lach's c
haracterization o
f
 
t
h
is p
henomenon, I
 r
egret, i
s
 only s
l
ightly e
xaggerated.
 
I
n t
he c
urrent i
s
sue o
f Art a
nd Antiques magazine
 
E
leanor Gaver of
fers t
he f
o
llowing a
ccount o
f
 t
he opening
 
o
f a
 r
ecent s
how o
f
 Thornton D
ial's work a
t
 t
he R
icco/
 
Maresca Gallery i
n
 New York:
 
.
.
.a r
ow o
f
 l
imousines waited
, t
heir e
ngines
 
i
dling
. I
nside, a
 w
ell-
h
eeled c
rowd o
f
 c
o
llectors
,
 
d
ealers a
nd a
rtists marveled a
t t
he p
aintings
,
 
t
hough s
ome w
ere n
onplused a
t t
he p
rice l
i
st
.
 
'
Fif
ty
 t
housand
 d
ollarsfor
 work
 b
y
 an untrained
 
Negro"asked o
ne ¢
educated a
nd s
uccessful n
eo-
e
xpressionist
 painter
.
 
I
 s
tood b
ack a
nd watched t
he c
rowd g
ape a
t
 a
 p
romi-
n
endy d
isplayed b
lack-and-white p
hotograph m
isrepre-
s
enting t
he D
ial f
amily a
s poor, down-trodden a
nd
 
h
uddled t
ogether i
n f
ront o
f
 a
 t
i
n s
hack. Nowhere was i
t
 
1
4
 SOUTHERN CHANGES
 September/October 1
990
 
mentioned t
hat t
h
is t
i
n s
hack
 was not t
heir
 
h
ome, b
ut t
he p
ainting s
tudio b
ehind
 
t
heir p
leasant s
uburban h
ouse. I
 t
urned t
o
 
g
allery
 owner F
rank
 Maresca a
nd s
a
id "
It's
 
t
oo b
ad t
he D
ials a
ren't h
ere f
or t
heir
 
o
pening." Maresca j
ust s
hook h
is h
ead.
 
"They s
houldn't b
e e
xposed t
o t
he a
rt
 
world," h
e s
a
id, "
i
t m
ight c
orrupt t
hem.
 
I
t
's b
etter t
hey s
tay where t
hey b
elong."
 
P
erhaps Maresca r
eally meant t
hat t
he
 
a
rt
 world s
houldn't b
e e
xposed t
o
 t
he D
ial
 
f
amily, f
or i
t
 m
ight s
hatter s
ome o
f
 t
hose
 
S
outhern s
tereotypes t
hat h
e markets s
o
 
l
ucratively.
 
L
ike many o
ther r
esources o
f t
he r
e
-
g
ion, S
outhern c
ulture h
as c
hief
ly b
een a
n
 
e
xport p
roduct, s
omething s
turdy, b
eau-
t
i
ful a
nd f
i
ne which h
as o
ften c
ontributed
 
r
i
chly t
o t
he s
haping o
fAmerican c
ulture.
 
But Southern c
ulture h
as a
l
so of
ten b
een
 
e
xpropriated, marketed i
n a
 p
ackage o
f
 
s
tereotypes, a
nd s
old f
or p
rof
it. And i
t
 wi
ll
 
no doubt c
ont
inue t
o b
e s
o e
xpropriated
 
u
nt
il t
he r
egion d
evelops t
he w
ill a
nd t
he
 
mechanisms f
or a
ssuming t
he c
r
it
ical p
ro-
M
IRIAM FOWLER
 
p
rietorship o
f
 i
t
s own c
ulture. ■
 Work o
f
 B
enjamin P
erkins
, Fayette County
, Alabama; a
t h
ome b
elow.
 
National Endowment f
or t
he Arts
 Henry Willett
 
Regional Representative
 
August 11, 1988
 
MEMORANDUM 
TO:
 Frank Hodsoll, Chairman
 
Jeanne Rhinelander, Special Assistant
 
FROM:
 Henry Willett, Regional Representative
 
RE:
 Monthly Report, JULY, 1988
 
CIVIL RIGHTS MEMORIAL
 
IN "CRADLE OF THE
 
CONFEDERACY"
 
Whenever I have out-of-town visitors in Montgomery, I
 
like to take them on a brief "insiders" tour of the
 
city.  We go by Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald's home
 
where they lived after returning to Montgomery in
 
hopes that "home" might prove therapeutic for Zelda's
 
progressing schizophrenia.
 We go by Hank William's
 
grave, appropriately showy, complete with cowboy hat,
 
boots, and the music and lyrics to "Jambalaya," "Your
 
Cheatin' Heart," and "Mansion on the Hill" carved into
 
the granite stone.
 And we go by the old cotton port
 
on the Alabama River, Montgomery's "raison d
'etre" in
 
the nineteenth century when tons of cotton made their
 
way down the river to the port of Mobile and finally
 
on to Liverpool.
 But I always end my tour on a certain
 
corner on downtown's Dexter Avenue, for, in my mind, it
 
is on that corner that the real Deep South city of
 
Montgomery, Alabama, in all its passionate ambiguities,
 
is found.
 Facing east one sees the old state Capitol,
 
with the Confederate battle flag still flying atop the
 
dome.
 On those Capitol steps Jefferson Davis took his
 
oath of office as the first and only president of the
 
Confederacy.
 George Wallace stood on those same steps
 
and proclaimed "Segregation now!
 Segregation forever!"
 
Martin Luther King stood on those steps and urged on the
 
thousands who had gathered at the culmination of the
 
Selma to Montgomery voting rights march.
 
Facing west one sees the slightly-less imposing Dexter
 
Avenue Baptist Church.
 The young Atlanta seminary
 
graduate, Martin Luther King, came to this church in
 
1954 as the new pastor.
 In that same year Montgomery
 
seamstress Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on
 
3
10 N. Hull S
treet, Montgomery, Alabama 3
6104 (
205) 2
64-3797
 
Alabama, F
lorida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee
 
Virginia, West Virginia
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Two
 
a city bus, prompting the bus boycott that launched
 
the modern civil rights movement.
 That movement and
 
King's career were both "birthed" in that brick church
 
one block from the first Capitol of the Confederacy.
 
Standing on that corner one experiences the rather
 
profound historical irony of being on the very spot
 
that is both the "Cradle of the Confederacy" and the
 
"Cradle of the Civil Rights Movement."  Standing on
 
that spot comes as close as any experience I know to
 
explaining the complex essence of the South.
 
A block away from Dexter Avenue is the headquarters
 
of the Southern Poverty Law Center, headed by attorney/
 
activist Morris Dees, former husband (
once-removed) of
 
former National Council Member Maureene (Dees, Rogers) Bass.
 
Last week Dees unveiled plans for a national memorial to
 
those people killed during the civil rights struggles of
 
the 1950s and 60s.
 The memorial, to be located outside
 
the Southern Poverty Law Center's offices, has been designed
 
by Maya Lin (
of Vietnam Veterans Memorial wall fame).
 It
 
will feature a stone garden and reflecting pool, the
 
inscribed names of thirty individuals killed during the
 
movement and the quotation from King's "I Have A Dream"
 
speech, "We will not be satisfied until justice rolls
 
down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream."
 
The method of funding the $350,000. memorial befits the
 
historical ironies which are Montgomery.
 Last month,
 
Morris Dees, over the outcry of Montgomery's historic
 
preservationists, had razed an abandoned ante-bellum
 
mansion (
considered one of the finest Italianate examples
 
in the city).
 Dees owned the property and considered it a
 
security risk to the Southern Poverty Law Center (
on the
 
hit lists of Aryan Nation, the Order, etc.)  He then sold
 
the property for $1 million and will use $350,000. of the
 
proceeds for construction of the Civil Rights Memorial.
 
So from the ashes of one ante-bellum Southern mansion there
 
will arise a national Civil Rights Memorial (
see attached
 
articles).
 
ARTS IN EDUCATION: 
SOUTH CAROLINA
 
"We're working with the South Carolina Arts Commission and
 
the State Department of Education to develop something
 
called The Arts in Basic Curriculum Plan.
 That document
 
lays down the guidelines for bringing an expanded arts
 
education program into every school district in our state.
 
It's our ticket to a future of new progress, and new hope
 
for all citizens." -- from remarks made by Governor Carroll
 
A
. Campbell, Jr. of South Carolina at the presentation of
 
the Verner Awards (
state arts awards) on May 3
, 1988.
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Three
 
FOLK ARTS:
 AN ISSUE OF
 
AUTHENTICITY IN POSSUM
 
BEND
 
In 1965, Episcopal priest Francis K
. Walter left New
 
Jersey to come to the Black Belt of western Alabama to
 
assist in the black voter registration effort.  While
 
traveling through Possum Bend in Wilcox County, he
 
was struck by the pervasiveness of traditional hand-sewn
 
quilts on backyard clotheslines throughout the area.
 
With $700. in Episcopal Church funds, Walter bought 70
 
quilts and auctioned them in New York with the proceeds
 
going to the Selma Interreligious Project (
organized in
 
the aftermath of the Selma-to-Montgomery March).
 By
 
March of 1966 a group of sixty black quilters from Possum
 
Bend, Camden and Gee's Bend (
site of the Roosevelt Farm
 
Project in the 1930s) in Wilcox County, Alabama, had
 
organized the Freedom Quilting Bee, a crafts co-op; and
 
an economic success story began.
 New York interior
 
designer Sister Parish began to order quilts.
 Vogue
  
magazine did a photo spread.
 Lord and Taylor, Saks,
 
and Bloomingdale's began to place orders.
 Articles appeared
 
in House and Garden, The New Yorker, and The New York Times.
 
Much of that success story is outlined in a recent book,
 
The Freedom Quilting Bee, by Nancy Callahan (University of
 
Alabama Press).
 
What Callahan's book doesn't adequately document is the
 
economic and aesthetic downturn that befell the Freedom
 
Quilting Bee in the 1970s and 1980s.
 The New York
 
Department stores began to find it more profitable to
 
market the Freedom Quilting Bee's name rather than the
 
traditional product.
 They quit ordering the traditional
 
quilts, instead professionally designing quilt patterns
 
in New York which were then mass produced according to
 
specification by the Wilcox County quilters.
 Demand
 
dropped and the New York stores quit writing contracts
 
with the Freedom Quilting Bee.
 The doors of the Bee's
 
Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Sewing Center are still
 
open, but are kept open through a single large contract
 
with Sears to produce corduroy pillow shams.
 The former
 
quilt artists are little more than pieceworkers now, and
 
wages are kept low enough to compete with Third World
 
pieceworkers.
 
The issue here, as I see it, is one of authenticity.
 The
 
pattern is fairly typical.
 The power and beauty of a
 
traditional folk art is discovered and becomes popular.
 
That folk art expression is then expropriated by commercial
 
interests and regurgitated back onto the marketplace, now a
 
popular parody of the real folk art expression.
 The art
 
consuming public, with a more discerning eye than any of
 
us realize, begins to recognize the lack of authenticity
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Four
 
in the commercial product, rejects it, and so ends
 
another chapter in fad consumerism.
 This same pattern
 
is being repeated over and over again with all sorts of
 
folk expression, from craft to music to foodways (
for
 
example, the current pop-Cajun food phenomenon).
 Perhaps
 
the single biggest challenge facing public folk arts
 
programs is the protection and validation of authenticity.
 
Speaking of authenticity, a recent New Yorker included an
 
article on authentic Appalachian storyteller and 1983
 
Heritage Award winner Ray Hicks.
 I have attached a copy
 
for those of you who may not have seen it.
 
INTER-ARTS:  A
 
MIXED BAG FIRST
  
EFFORT IN RICHMOND 
It was billed as the first Richmond International Festival
 
of Music, but Rudolph Nureyev was among the headliners,
 
and future plans call for more involvement with the visual
 
and graphic arts, so I
'll report on it under Inter-Arts.
 
The Richmond Times-Dispatch diplomatically called the
 
first-year effort "a successful learning experience."
 
And the Festival's managing director Nina Abady said
 
"we're going significantly over" the Festival's first-year
 
budget of $500,000.
 Fundraising fell far short of needs
 
and projections leaving no budget for marketing and
 
publicity.
 Attendance was most disappointing.
 Rudolph
 
Nureyev danced for 1
,760 in the 3
,600-seat Mosque.
 Marvin
 
Hamlisch played to 680 in the 2
,000-seat Carpenter Center.
 
The outdoor jazz shows, by contrast, were rather well
 
attended, thanks, in large measure to the ongoing work
 
of the Richmond Jazz Society.
 Despite the sobering
 
realities of this year's festival, plans are underway
 
for the second annual festival in 1989.
 
LOCALS: 
SUCCESS
 
IN LEXINGTON
 
Two months ago I reported on Lexington, KY, mayor Scotty
 
Baesler's challenge to the local business community to
 
raise $400,000. for the arts, matching the county's new
 
$250,000. appropriation which was in turn matching the
 
combined state and federal grant of $112,000., the result
 
of an Endowment Local Programs grant.
 Lexington's Fund
 
for the Arts recently ended its 1988 fund drive with
 
$420,000., a 42% increase over its previous all-time high.
 
Top contributors were Ashland Oil, IBM and Toyota, each
 
contributing $25,000.
 Lanette Thurman, new commissioner
 
of the Kentucky Department of the Arts, praised the fund
 
drive's work "for demonstrating leadership in action at
 
the local level... you have moved this community into a
 
higher plane of cultural life."  A Local Programs success
 
story (
see attached clipping).
 
k
 
I
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Five
 
MEDIA: 
FILM
 
FESTIVALS IN
 
FLORIDA 
The Miami Film Festival, now in its fifth year, has
 
earned a reputation as a unique, if sometimes eclectic,
 
bi-cultural forum for film.
 Last year it was threatened
 
with an early death when the state withdrew $100,000. in
 
funding.
 The state also refused a request of $100,000.
 
from the fledgling Fort Lauderdale Film Festival,
 
dedicated to American independent film.
 
This year the state legislature reversed itself,
 
designated both festivals "vital local organizations,"
 
along with the brand new "French Film Festival in
 
Sarasota," and appropriated $100,000. to each.
 Miami
  
Herald columnist Bill Cosford wonders if there may be
 
a few too many film fests in Florida (
see attached),
 
and perhaps he's correct; but then Cosford's columns
 
are, from time to time, overcome with a sense of city
 
chauvinism for Miami, a chauvinism which seems to
 
regularly take aim at Ft. Lauderdale in particular.
 
STATES: 
ALABAMA,  
FLORIDA, SOUTH
 
CAROLINA 
Last week the Alabama State Council on the Arts acted on
 
its final grant applications, but was forced to do so
 
conditionally, because, as I write, the state arts council
 
has no budget.
 Back in April, bills passed both the House
 
and Senate giving the state arts council an appropriation
 
of nearly 2
.5 million, or an 85 percent increase.
 However,
 
the state budget bills died in conference committee on
 
May 5
, the last day of the regular legislative session,
 
which ended with no action on the General Fund Budget, the
 
Special Education Trust Fund Budget, tax increase measures,
 
the Governor's education initiative and numerous other
 
important pieces of legislation.
 The governor has refused
 
to schedule a special session until he gets certain
 
concessions from the Legislature, and the stalemate remains
 
for now.
 State arts council director Al Head is cautiously
 
optimistic that the large appropriation increase can be
 
maintained in the special session.
 The increase, if
 
forthcoming, will go toward beefing up ASCA's folklife,
 
major organizations, rural development, design arts and
 
general grants programs.
 
Last month I reported on Florida's new Major Institutions
 
program.
 Other state appropriations for FY 88-89 are as
 
follows:
 
(
see attached)
 
The $4.5 million Fine Arts Endowment is in a trust fund
 
and does not represent new monies.
 However, the administrator
 
of this fund has recently come under the purview of the
 
Division of Cultural Affairs.
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Six
 
The State of South Carolina has recently released its
 
first statewide study of the economic impact of the
 
cultural industry on the state.
 The report was prepared
 
for the South Carolina Joint Legislative Committee on
 
Cultural Affairs and the South Carolina Arts Commission
 
by the Division of Research of the College of Business
 
Administration at the University of South Carolina.  A
 
few highlights -- the direct spending of the cultural
 
industry in South Carolina is 127.5 million (
includes
 
arts organizations, artists, libraries, festivals, museums,
 
historical associations and sites, arts education and other
 
humanities projects).
 Indirect spending is 244.2 million.
 
Sales tax revenue produced by the state's cultural industry
 
totals approximately $2.2 million.
 12,745 persons are
 
employed (most part-time) in the cultural industry.
 56,557
 
volunteers contribute approximately 1
.5 million hours to
 
the state's cultural industry.
 Eighty-one percent of the
 
13.8 million audience members last year received free
 
admission.
 
These economic impact studies and the data they provide
 
are interesting and worthwhile.
 However, in my opinion,
 
they are often misapplied in pragmatic political arguments
 
as if economic development were the only justification for
 
public support of the arts.
 I might add that an industry
 
that produces only $2.2 million in direct tax revenue
 
doesn't seem to be the most effective means toward economic
 
development, particularly when one considers the fact that
 
last year's state appropriation to the South Carolina Arts
 
Commission was $2.8 million.
 The numbers are interesting,
 
but I
'm not sure they're reason for celebration; and they
 
offer, at best, a pretty puny economic development argument.
 
As corporate patronage increasingly attaches itself to
 
cause-related marketing budgets, I think it is particularly
 
necessary that public arts funding be the result of a
 
public responsibility to culture rather than pragmatic
 
economic politics.
 
THEATRE:  
ATLANTA 
Atlanta theatre critic Dan Hulbert calls it "the New
 
Southern Voice -- playwrights, black and white, urban
 
and rural, Jewish and Gentile, sacrilegious and spiritual .
..
 
playwrights who tenaciously examine questions of morality
 
and social justice in black and white terms -- good versus
 
evil -- however unfashionable that might be today in such
 
citadels of hipness as Los Angeles and New York.
 They are
 
playwrights who are opening up what  Southern drama means...."
 
For some years I have been writing about the uniqueness and
 
creative energy of the Atlanta theatre scene, a creative
 
energy that is coalescing into a certain Atlanta "feel" or
 
style, a style that could occur nowhere but in the South.
 
'Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Seven
 
Perhaps it's the transition to New South or the
 
urbanization of the South which is responsible for
 
this unique creative energy.
 Then again, I think
 
perhaps the current creative energy of the Atlanta
 
theatre scene may be drawing upon that traditional
 
and unique source of creative energy in the South,
 
the historically unprecedented cultural collision of
 
two very different world civilizations, African and
 
West European.
 
To the New York writers the new theatre in Atlanta is
 
another revival of Southern gothic, an updated Tennessee
 
Williams or Lillian Hellman or Beth Henley, but this new
 
Atlanta theater goes beyond the old conflict between the
 
rural, aristocratic past and the urban, egalitarian future.
 
It twists and confuses and, in its look at unadorned good
 
and evil,reveals new, often ironic, dimensions of Southern
 
culture -- dimensions which often fly by the non-Southern
 
theatre-goer, unnoticed.
 In Sandra Deer's "So Long on
 
Lonely Street" the servant appears to be in the traditional
 
black servant role while she frustrates the good-ol'-boy
 
master of the house, in his attempt to build a Christian
 
shopping mall, through her miscegenatious claims to the
 
family estate.
 In the current off-Broadway "Driving Miss
 
Daisy," by Atlanta native Alfred Uhry, the old black
 
retainer buys the car he once chauffered and admonishes
 
the son of his employer to keep his cigarette ashes off
 
the upholstery.
 In the Southern Theatre Conspiracy's
 
"Illuminati" a deranged Southern fundamentalist preacher
 
is sentenced to forever ride a bicycle with a built-in
 
self-flagellation device, at1 absurdist anti-Christ
 
image of the Southern preacher as both self-important
 
martyr and bumbling buffoon, an image, I might add, that
 
even the most devout Southern fundamentalist partly
 
ascribes to.
 And in the current performance Gallery
 
production of "Faust! For President" we find an adaptation
 
of the ancient morality legend of mortgaging one's soul to
 
the devil.
 Satan is a slick media consultant and Faust,
 
the presidential candidate, is a satirized Jimmy Carter
 
stereotypical "wimp" liberal -- a teacher whose parents
 
were farmers and who fought for the snail darter.
 And,
 
with classic Southern irony, "Faust's" overture includes
 
Woody Guthrie's "This Land is Your Land" with a slyly
 
interwoven few bars of "Dixie."
 
Atlanta playwrights Levi Lee, Rebecca Wackler, Rebecca Ranson,
 
Jim Grimsley, Joe Reese, George Lawes, and Seven Stages,
 
Jomandi, the Southern Theatre CQ
_nspiracy, and-the--Academy
 
are all giving voice to what "Faust" co-author Joe Reese
 
calls the unofficial Atlanta theater creed, "to draw the
 
line and say, "This is right, this is wrong."
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Eight
 
But this Atlanta style will, I
'm sure, continue to
 
struggle to find the New York audience
 According
 
to Emory University Theater Department Chairman
 
James Flannery, "The Southern dramatic experience
 
has always been tarred as reactionary, but today
 
so much of our theater has an unabashed willingness
 
to tackle in a direct manner themes of profound moral
 
seriousness.
 The deep religious sensibility is part
 
of it.
 That theme is not always understood by the rest
 
of the country...."
 
VISUAL ARTS:  
VIRGINIA MUSEUM
 
FELLOWSHIPS 
I
'm not aware of any other fine arts museum in the
 
region with a program quite like the Virginia Museum
 
of Fine Arts Visual Arts Fellowship Program.
 Last
 
month the museum awarded 23 fellowships totalling
 
$74,000.
 Nine were awarded to undergraduate art students,
 
nine to graduate art students and five to professional
 
working artists.
 The professional artists included Falls
 
Church photographer Joseph Mills, Richmond painter Elaine
 
Rogers, Richmond craft artist Rolanda Scott, Charlottesville
 
photographer Holly Wright and Vienna sculptor Yuriko
 
Yamaguchi.
 
Some 250 fellowship applicants were reviewed by an outside
 
panel of experts with final approval of selections made
 
by the Museum's education-in-the-arts committee.
 Funds
 
for the Virginia Museum Fellowships come from an endowment
 
established nearly 50 years ago by the late John Lee Pratt
 
of Fredericksburg with additional funds from the Lettie
 
Pate Whitehead Foundation and the Virginia Museum Foundation.
 
QUOTE OF THE MONTH (
on becoming an artist) 
Anyone who has traveled with a camera may have
 
felt this shaping (
I know I have).
 We have
 
seen thousands of photographs and have a pretty
 
clear idea of what is or is not a good picture.
 
First thing we know, we are looking at something
 
not so much in terms of what it is in itself, but
 
in the limited terms of whether or not it will
 
make a good photograph.
 For example, I used to
 
enjoy vistas (
say, the view from the mountain one
 
gets when he pulls his car over into the "scenic
 
turnout"); but after a while I discovered that the
 
pictures I took of such panoramas were usually dull
 
and disappointing, nowhere near as good as that
 
picture of the horse cropping grass by the overgrown
 
fence post.
 It wasn't long before I began to lose
 
interest in "scenic turnouts" -- wouldn't even stop
 
the car for them -- and I
'm sure there were a few
 
I didn't even see because in a way they weren't there
 
for me.
 Meanwhile, I developed a much keener eye for
 
fenceposts and the like.
 The effects were two:
 I
 
tended to look at the world around me as a means to
 
an end; not an end in itself; and I frequently was
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Nine
 
more interested in the photograph than in the
 
thing photographed (
"I can't wait to get home and
 
see how this one turned out").
 Since ultimately I
 
found this limiting, if not a bit poisonous, I quit,
 
and now leave the camera at home.
 I had become an
 
artist, and I didn't like it. rFrom Joe Scott:
 The
 
Woodsman-Songmaker, by Edward D
. "Sandy" Ives, former
 
Endowmenc panelis D
 
MEETINGS/EVENTS 
Ruby Lerner, arts consultant, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Al Head, executive director, Alabama State Council
 
on the Arts, Montgomery, Alabama
 
Alabama State Sacred Harp Sing, Montgomery, Alabama
 
Frank Ratka, executive director, Georgia Council on the
 
Arts, Tucker, Georgia
 
Del Hamilton, Seven Stages, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Blaine Dunlap, independent media producer, Atlanta, Gerogia
 
George King, independent media producer, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Tom Rankin, Delta State University, Cleveland, Mississippi
 
"Bananaland," Seven Stages, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Alternate ROOTS Executive Committee Meeting, Christian
 
Pass, Mississippi
 
Jim Grimsley, playwright, Atlanta, Georgia
 
John O
'Neill, Junebug Productions, New Orleans, Louisiana
 
Jan Villarubia, playwright, New Orleans, Louisiana
 
M.K. Wegmann, Contemporary Arts Center, New Orleans, LA
 
Dudley Cocke, Roadside Theatre, Whitesburg, Kentucky
 
Alabama State Council on the Arts Council Meeting, Montgomery, Al
 
Gail Trechsel, Alabama State Council on the Arts, Birmingham, AL
 
Black Arts Festival Folk Arts Festival, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Urban Bushwomen, Collective Theatre, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Ian McCall, More Productions, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Henry Willett
 
July Report
 
Page Ten
 
Celeste Miller, Dancer/Choreographer, Atlanta, Georgia
 
John Burrison, Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Annelen Archbold, Georgia Folklife Program, Atlanta, GA
 
Worth Long, Atlanta Media Project, Atlanta, Georgia
 
1988-89 STATE APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR THE DIVISION OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS 
1987-88
 1988-89
 1988-89
 
Appropriations 
Requests 
Appropriations
  
Basic Arts Grants
 $ 2
,700,000
 $ 3
,000,000
 $ 2
,700,000
 
Major Institutions
 $
 -0-
 $ 3
,500,000
 $ 4,700,000
 
State Touring
 $
 200,000
 $
 300,000
 $
 200,000
 
Challenge Grants
 $
 200,000
 $
 300,000
 $
 200,000
 
Florida Fine Arts Endowment
 $
 -0-
 $ 3,600,000
 $ 4
,500,000
 
State Theatres
 $
 983,207
 $ 1,125,704
 $ 1
,019,988
 
Arts in Education
 $
 -0-
 $
 250,000
 $
 -0-
International Cultural
 
Exchange
 $
 250,000
 $
 250,000
 $
 250,000
 
Arts Facilities Development
 
& Operations Program
 $12,531,948
 $10,000,000
 $11,400,000
 
National Endowment f
or t
he Arts
 Henry Willett
 
July 11, 
•
::
 
MEMORANDUM
 
TO:
 
•
. •
 n
.
 
Jeanne Rhinelander,
'
•
Willett,
•
 
Monthly
-
.•
 •
::
 
SPEAKING OF 
1 
 
ARTS FUNDS
 
 
I haven't compiled the exact figures, .
I'm certain the
 
South
more 
proportionate share of 
-
•
 
Arts Funds scattered around the region.
•
 -m
 
served as an early successful regional model,
.  many of
 
the arts institutions
 
• 
emerged
 
only in the last two decades, allowing UAF's to be
 
established before individual
•
 became too
 
prohibitively protective of
 
interest stables of patrons.
 
Many UAFs have been 
•  •
 
•
 -
u  Louisville and Chattanooga quickly come to
 
mind.
 They have managed 
 • dramatically increase t
•
 
dollars going to local arts organizations, and, in many
 
cases, have been able to tap business and corporate sources
 
of support when individual arts organizations had been un-
• yet I .
0 troubled by many of 
problems
 
with UAFs, 
• worry about
of 
•
 
breeding and sustaining cultural excellence on 
•
 
level.
 It is no coincidence, for
 
with long-established
 
 one 
•ically finds a sad
 
history of 
•
•• 
from local governments.
 
most 
• .
 • •kie-cutter approach t
•
 
in-
stitutional development 
most 
oblige their u-
o•-
 
r
ge
rq
ou
up
ir
s esto follow.
 The Memphis Arts Council, for instance,
 
.
..  • of 
or more members 
• meet
 
quarterly, no deficit, a two-year history of budgets of at
 
least $50,000."  
mention of 
quality
 
or potential, or worse still, there is an implicit assumption
 
that quality is .
o- •
 . to
 
"boards of 
or more"
 
• "budgets of 
 
ferment 
experimentation 
• be nurtured at the local
 
Most 
u
.
 . •
category,
 
category 
comprises
is typically strictly limited to specific projects
 
and typically 
only 
percentage of
 
Alabama, F
lorida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee
 
Virginia, West Virginia
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Two
 
"operating support" organizations are also eligible
 
to apply for project funds.
 The old, established,
 
and rich get older, more established and richer,
 
while the new, emerging, minority and poor stay
 
poor.
 At their worst, UAFs tend to encourage
 
artistic mediocrity.
 
The problem with UAFs, in my view, is structural rather
 
than systemic.  They often produce great economic benefits,
 
and some are much more flexible than others in their
 
methods for providing support.
 But, in the majority of
 
cases, their preoccupation with institutional development,
 
earned income and marketing renders them rather impotent
 
as a force for stimulation of artistic greatness at the
 
local level.
 
The movement as a whole, in my estimation, would be
 
well served by a major infusion of artistic planning
 
and judgment, but I don't sense that occurring.
 
ARTS EDUCATION/
 
ARTS TRAINING/
 
MIAMI 
While I have watched basic improvements in comprehensive
 
arts education proceeding at a slow, yet encouraging,
 
snail's pace in recent years, I have also witnessed a
 
small epidemic occurring in arts training for the gifted --
magnet schools, Governor's schools, high schools for the
 
performing arts, etc.  While these arts training institutions
 
are needed, effective, proper, pure and good, they have, in
 
their high visibility and sexiness, tended to deflect
 
attention away from the more difficult demands of
 
comprehensive sequential arts education.
 One can sense
 
that deflection of attention happening all over the region
 
where new and sexy arts training schools have sprung up.
 
Miami's New World School of the Arts has now completed its
 
first year, and by all accounts, it was a most successful
 
debut  (
see attached article).
 Next year the grade 10-12
 
school will expand to the college level with this year's
 
$3.9 million budget (
$800,000. from the state) expanding
 
to some $5 million.
 This year's $3.9 million serviced 377
 
students, for a per pupil expenditure of $10,355.
 
DANCE: 
LOCAL BOY MAKES
 
GOOD AND _
TRY, TRY AGAIN
 
IN MEMPHIS
 
Union Springs, Alabama is a poor rural town of 6
,000 located
 
50 miles southeast of Montgomery.
 The town's biggest claim
 
to fame in recent years has been that it was the boyhood
 
hometown of Winton "Red" Blount, international construction
 
magnate, former postmaster general, member of the President's
 
Committee on the Arts and Humanities, and major patron of the
 
Alabama Shakespeare Festival.
 
k
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Three
 
Lately, twenty-three year old Wes Chapman is becoming the
 
most talked about son of Union Springs.
 When he was ten
 
Wes Chapman talked his father into letting him take ballet
 
lessons in Montgomery.
 His father, the local high school
 
football coach, agreed on the condition that Chapman also
 
play Little League baseball, which he dutifully did until
 
he was twelve.
 
At fifteen Chapman auditioned for and was accepted by the
 
Alabama School of Fine Arts in Birmingham where he studied
 
under Dame Sonia Arova.
 In 1984 he flew to New York to
 
audition for Baryshnikov, and after taking only one class,
 
was offered a position with ABT.
 Several months ago he
 
was promoted to soloist, and the word is that it's just a
 
matter of time before he is elevated to principal.
 That's
 
a long way from Union Springs, and "Red" Blount has begun to
 
introduce himself at cocktail parties as being from the same
 
town as Wes Chapman.
 
The Tennessee Ballet  (Memphis) has traveled some rocky
 
roads since it first began performing in 1983.
 Founding
 
director George Latimer resigned in 1986 after a dispute
 
with the board of directors.
 Deena Laska, formerly of the
 
Israel Ballet, served the company for two years, until
 
last month, when the board voted not to renew her contract.
 
Helen Gorst Peterson has been named the new artistic director,
 
and, in her 50s, this is her first shot at directing a pro-
fessional dance troupe.
 Her experience comes from running
 
small dance schools in New York, New Jersey, and Mississippi
 
and a brief ABT career in the mid-50s.
 She has her work
 
cut out for her.
 
FOLK ARTS: 
SEEDTIME ON
 
THE CUMBERLAND AND
 
RECORDINGS RE-ISSUE
 
IN LOUISIANA
 
I don't know of an arts organization that doesn't from time
 
to time worry about how to attract an audience that is truly
 
representative of its home community.
 That is a problem that
 
eastern Kentucky's Appalshop has struggled with for some time.
 
Appalshop films play to international audiences.
 Appalshop's
 
Roadside Theatre has received rave reviews from audiences
 
from Los Angeles to Lynch, Kentucky, the other side of the
 
mountain.
 But the hometown of Whitesburg and Letcher County
 
have historically proven to be a source of frustration when
 
it comes to attracting local audiences.
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Four
 
Last month I traveled t
o Whitesburg to consult and
 
advise on the issue of local audience development,
 
and to witness, first-hand, the second annual Seedtime
 
on the Cumberland festival, a two-day celebration of
 
local Appalachian music, song and story.  The crowds
 
were capacity or near capacity for every performance.
 
The audience was composed almost entirely of local
 
mountain folks.  The artists were absolutely first rate
 
including the better-knowns such as Ray Hicks, Nimrod
 
Workman and Wade Mainer, the lesser-knowns, such as the
 
Roan Mountain Hilltoppers, Uncle Charlie Osborne and
 
Clint Howard, and a few discoveries, most notably
 
Morgan Sexton, a master soloist on old-time banjo, who
 
was giving his first-ever public performance.
 
Much of Appalshop's recent success in local audience
 
development must be credited, in my opinion, to the
 
acquisition of Radio S
tation WMMT-FM two years ago.
 
Through WMMT, which functions as a community radio
 
station, Appalshop has found an effective means for
 
communicating with its local audience.  All of the
 
Seedtime on the Cumberland performances were broadcast
 
live on WMMT (
live radio is awfully exciting) and hosted
 
by the very popular host of WMMT's old-time music hour.
 
I
t was rather gratifying t
o see local radio, which back
 
in the pre-top 40, pre-syndicated days had served so
 
effectively as a means for local aesthetic validation
 
and self-celebration, once again serving in that capacity.
 
Local eastern Kentuckians listen to, like, understand and
 
trust WMMT, and have come to better understand and
 
patronize Appalshop through WMMT.  Last winter a bitter
 
storm knocked out some of WMMT's equipment.
 The radio
 
station launched a listener appeal campaign and had
 
raised the needed $25,000. in listener contributions
 
in less than a week, all in a county of less than 15,000
 
with poverty and unemployment levels among the highest
 
in the nation.
 In communities where local folks have
 
somehow managed to get some control of the local airwaves,
 
radio has proven a most effective means of cultural communi-
cation and aesthetic programming.
 I feel it is vastly under-
utilized.
 
Louisiana Cajun and Creole music has been riding quite a
 
wave of popularity in recent years, not just in Louisiana,
 
but throughout the country.
 From Boston to L
.A. bands
 
are playing cajun and zydeco, often purely and powerfully,
 
but, increasingly, in watered-down versions which amount
 
to little more than impotent popular parodies of the real
 
thing.  Hence, it is of timely importance and significance
 
that we now have a re-issue of historic cajun and creole
 
music recorded by John and Alan Lomax for the Library of
 
Congress in 1934.  The two-record set, produced with funding
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Five
 
from the Louisiana Division of the Arts, includes a
 
25-page booklet with period photographs, French and
 
English transcriptions of the lyrics, a commentary by
 
Cajun folklorist Barry Jean Ancelet and a retrospective
 
essay by Alan Lomax (
see attached article).
 The record
 
set serves not only as an important and timely, historical
 
and educational piece for the general public, but also
 
as an important aesthetic reference point for the many
 
musicians still playing in the Cajun and Creole tradition; an
 
important music tradition with almost no recorded history.
 
LITERATURE/MEDIA:  
WEST VIRGINIA PUBLIC
 
RADIO
 
West Virginia Public Radio, creators of "Mountain Stage,"
 
and certainly the most creative public radio network in
 
my region, has launched a new radio drama initiative.
 
WVPR's "Audio Images" contest will select twelve original
 
scripts of short stories, tall tales, poetry, history and
 
fantasy for network radio production.
 Winners will each
 
receive $650.00.
 Their scripts will be produced for
 
network broadcast next year.
 Sponsors include the West
 
Virginia Library Commission, the Humanities Foundation of
 
West Virginia, the Gannett Foundation, the Becklev Area
 
Foundation and Atlantic Financial Charitable Trust.
 
Production will begin in January.
 
MUSEUMS: 
DEATH, GREED
 
AND AESTHETIC LUST IN
 
BIRMINGHAM
 
In his 25 years of chairman of the board, Charles Ireland
 
built Birmingham's Vulcan Materials steel company into a
 
construction industry giant.
 During those years Ireland
 
and his wife Caroline amassed an impressive personal art
 
collection and were major patrons of the Birmingham :
Museum
 
of Art.
 It thus came as no surprise that Ireland's will,
 
read after his death at the age of 70 last July, specified
 
that his prized art collection, with works by Homer, Picasso,
 
Matisse,  Sargent, Wyeth and Warhol among others, be left to
 
an AmSouth Bank trust to benefit his wife, eventually to be
 
transferred to the Birmingham Museum of Art when she dies.
 
Unfortunately, Ireland's will did not include a specific
 
inventory of said paintings and the museum and City of
 
Birmingham have challenged Mrs.  Ireland's account of what
 
works of art belonged to her husband when he died and what
 
belonged to her or them as a couple.
 The legal web has
 
become quite tangled, and museum director Douglas Hyland
 
and Birmingham mayor Richard Arrington have become the
 
subjects of some not-very-kind comments.
 New York gallery
 
director Warren Adelson, who has done business with both
 
the Irelands and the museum, calls the museum's suit "the
 
single most insensitive case I
've heard of in my 25 years
 
of experience (
see attached article)."  The case promises
 
to be tied up in court for some time.
 I suppose the
 
Birmingham Museum may want to take Caroline Ireland's name
 
off the annual giving campaign mailing list.
 Doesn't seem
 
much point in wasting a 25-cent stamp.
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Six
 
MUSIC:
 NEW ORLEANS,
 
ATLANTA
 
New Orleans has always been one of my favorite cities,
 
and what I like most about New Orleans is its sometimes
 
zany, but delightful unpredictability.
 But I must say
 
I
'm a bit taken back by the quite unpredictable recent
 
announcement of the New Orleans Symphony Orchestra,
 
that announcement being that they will begin a new
 
season of performances on January 1
.
 
In this year of suspended operations the orchestra has
 
raised a grand total of $271,405.05, has settled the
 
issue of back wages with the musicians, and maintained
 
a steady stream of press releases.
 A committee was
 
formed to explore possibilities for resurrecting the
 
orchestra.
 But the orchestra is $4 million in debt
 
(
I don't know how much, if any, of that amount has been
 
forgiven) and the Orpheum Theater (
owned by NOSO)  is
 
triple mortgaged.
 I haven't been able to ascertain the
 
specifics for getting back in business.
 Somebody must
 
be awfully brave, or it's simply another case of New
 
Orleans'  "Le bontemps rouler!"
 
It was billed as the largest performing arts ensemble
 
from the United States ever to tour Europe, Robert Shaw's
 
alpha and omega, his final duty as music director of the
 
Atlanta Symphony Orchestra and Chorus, and his first-ever
 
European tour with ASO.
 By all accounts, the six concert,
 
six day, five country tour was a rousing success.
 Shaw
 
chose Beethoven's Ninth for the tour, the same piece with
 
which he began his ASO tenure 21 years ago.
 The East
 
Berlin performance was reported to be particularly moving
 
(
see attached article), and it was the 220-voice chorus
 
which received most of the critical acclaim, confirming
 
what most feel has been Shaw's greatest strength --
choral conducting.
 
OPERA: ATLANTA 
Four years ago the Atlanta Opera had a budget of $250,000.
 
and staged four performances a year.
 Then the Metropolitan
 
Opera discontinued its spring sojourn to Atlanta.
 The
 
Atlanta Opera now has a budget of $1 million and the number
 
of performances has increased to twelve -- rather rapid
 
growth in three years.
 The Company has been receiving much
 
critical acclaim, and, late this summer, artistic advisor
 
William Fred Scott will be leaving his assistant and
 
associate conductor slot at the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra
 
to become full-time artistic director of the Atlanta Opera.
 
And Scott has big plans.
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Seven
 
Beginning next year he plans to produce one American
 
Opera a year, and by 1990 he is planning to dramatically
 
expand the season to six operas during the season sandwiched
 
between two festivals of three operas each.
 His long-term
 
goal is to find a new performance home for the Atlanta Opera,
 
which is now forced to use the Alliance when the theater
 
company isn't.
 The unavailability of the Alliance, along
 
with its 784-seat house and small (
45 musician) pit present
 
obstacles to the opera's future plans (
see attached article).
 
STATES: 
FLORIDA,  
GEORGIA, KENTUCKY Two weeks ago, Florida Governor Bob Martinez signed into
 
law a landmark piece of arts legislation.
 The bill,
 
championed by Secretary of State Jim Smith,  Senator Bob
 
Johnson and Representative Keith Arnold, will generate
 
recurring funds  (
approximately $4.7 million next year)
 
for Florida's fourteen designated major arts organizations
 
and seven "vital local oranizations" not designated "majors."
 
Each organization will receive a minimum appropriation of
 
$100,000.
 The removal of "majors" and "vital locals" from
 
the Basic Arts Grants Program will free up an additional
 
$500,000.  for support of local arts agencies and smaller
 
organizations.
 The revenue is being generated from an
 
additional $10 levied on corporations' annual report fees
 
(which have been $25).
 
Reports indicate that all state arts organizations  (
which
 
do not always agree) are happy with this legislation.
 It
 
represents $4.7 million in new recurring revenue for the
 
arts and all organizations stand to benefit.
 The bill's
 
passage represented a bi-partisan effort.
 The vote was
 
unanimous in the Senate with only one dissenting vote in
 
the House  (
see attached articles).
 
State funding for the arts in Georgia has more than doubled
 
during Governor Joe Frank Harris' administration.
 The most
 
recent increase of $287,435 represents an increase of nearly
 
10 percent bringing the annual state appropriation to over
 
$3.2 million.  Most of the increase is targeted toward the
 
grants program.
 
Dr. Lanette Thurman of Murray has been appointed by Kentucky
 
Governor Wilkinson as new Commissioner of the Department
 
of the Arts, replacing Crit Luallen, who resigned her post
 
when the new governor was elected.
 The Kentucky arts
 
community is pleased with Thurman's selection, and, with a
 
strong background in education, Thurman should bring added
 
impetus to the Kentucky Arts Council's arts education efforts.
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Eight
 
THEATRE: 
LOUISVILLE, 
ATLANTA
 
Louisville, Kentucky has, of late, been developing a
 
rather exciting fringe theater scene.
 Actor's Theatre
 
of Louisville and Louisville Children's Theatre, along
 
with the Broadway Series, continue to attract most of
 
the headlines, but Pegasus Rising and NewStage Repertory,
 
performing at the Kentucky Center for the Arts' new
 
Boyd Martin Experimental Theater, and Banbury Repertory
 
and Kentucky Contemporary, performing in interior design
 
shops and restaurants are attracting small, but enthusiastic
 
audiences to their new work.
 Pegasus Rising, in particular,
 
is creating a lot of excitement, and is being compared to
 
Actors' Theatre back in its Fourth Avenue Loft days.
 
In the meantime, Actors'  Theatre of Louisville seems to
 
continue struggling to redefine itself.
 Producing director
 
Jon Jory managed to correct two seasons of declining
 
attendance through a few crowd pleasers, most notably
 
"The Rocky Horror Show," but, according to Louisville
 
Courier-Journal critic William Mootz, "Jory is paving a
 
price for such popular success.
 The finely-tuned acting
 
ensembles that once characterized his company are but a
 
dim memorv.
 Plays are frequently carelessly cast and
 
perfunctorily directed... What one misses is the sense of
 
adventure that established Jory as one of the most important
 
leaders in the countrv's resident-theater movement.
 One
 
longs for him to recapture the daring sense of mission that
 
provided so many thrills in seasons past."  And Jory's
 
commissioning of novelists and journalists to write new
 
plays proved less than successful, and has drawn much
 
criticism in the press, particularly in the Village Voice
 
(
though I personally think Jory has an interesting idea
 
that deserves another few vears before it's forever damned).
 
Now that ATL has corrected its audience problems with the
 
highest ticket revenue grosses in its history, perhaps we'll
 
begin to see some more of that old excitement.
 
Robert Farley, artistic director of Atlanta's Alliance
 
Theatre, has hired Kenny Leon to be the Alliance's new
 
associate artistic director.
 Leon has worked as an actor
 
and director in Atlanta for ten years.
 He is well connected
 
to Atlanta's black and alternative theatre scene, having
 
worked with Jomandi, S
even Stages, and others, and should
 
do much to help the Alliance's image among the rest of
 
Atlanta's theatre community, many of whom view the Alliance
 
as being too stuffy and preoccupied with New York connections
 
(
see attached article).
 
Henry Willett
 
June Report
 
Page Nine
 
MEETINGS/EVENTS 
"Seedtime on the Cumberland" Festival, Appalshop,
 
Whitesburg, Kentucky
 
Dudley Cocke, Director, Roadside Theatre, Norton, Virginia
 
Lee Koon, Museum of Music, Wetumpka, Alabama
 
Ramona Lampell, art collector and author, Parkersburg,
 
West Virginia
 
Natalie Noel, British-American Theatre Company, Mobile, Alabama
 
Open Dialogue III Conference, Washington, D
.C.
 
NALAA Annual Meeting, Washington, D
.C.
 
Nancv Brown, Macon Arts Alliance, Macon, Georgia
 
Fran  Jones, Montgomery Business Committee for the Arts,
 
Montgomery, Alabama
 
National Endowment f
or t
he Arts
 Henry Willett
 
Davis,
 
TO: 
John Frohnmayer, Chairman
 
Julianne 
 
FROM: 
• 
Representative
 
M
CE
IM
VO
IR
LIAL
 RIGHTS 
 
•
fourteen-year -old Emmett Till, visiting relatives in
 
Money, Missippi, walked into a local store, bought some candy
 
from 
•
 of 
• 
owner,
. 
on
 
way out said "Bye baby!"  His body was found three days later --
a bullet in the skull, one eye gouged out and his head crushed.
 
pistol
 
On September 15, 1963, thirteen-year -old Virgil Ware of
 
Birmingham, Alabama was riding on the handlebars of his older
 
brother's bicycle. 
They were approached by two white youths
 
riding on a motorscooter. As they rode by one of the boys pulled
 
. shot
two
 
going Eagle Scouts confessed to the killing, explaining how they
 
had just come from 
•
 of
 
National
 
In 
•
••  Samuel Younge,
stude nt
shot to death in a dispute over a whites -only restroom in Tuskegee,
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Two
 
Time will tell whether Maya Lin's memorial t
o the civil rights
 
movement evokes the same emotional responses as the Vietnam
 
Memorial.
 I have personally found it to be a very moving piece
 
in a very moving place -- in front of the Southern Poverty Law
 
Center, just blocks from the old state Capitol, with the
 
Confederate battle flag still flying atop the dome.  On those
 
Capitol steps Jefferson Davis took his oath of office as the
 
first and only president of the Confederacy.  George Wallace
 
stood on those same steps and proclaimed "Segregation Now!
 
Segregation Forever!"  Martin Luther King stood on those steps
 
and urged on the thousands who had gathered at the culmination
 
of the Selma to Montgomery voting rights march.  And at the foot
 
of those Capitol steps stands the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church
 
where the young seminary graduate, Martin Luther King, arrived
 
as the new pastor in 1955, only to be drafted to lead the Montgomery
 
bus boycott, thus launching the modern civil rights movement.
 
Montgomery, Alabama is a complex place, "Cradle of the
 
Confederacy" and "Cradle of the Civil Rights Movement" at one
 
and the same time, a place of passionate emotional ambiguities.
 
As an individual whose roots run deep in Alabama, I find it
 
difficult to explain the complexity of the emotions that
 
overcame me when I first viewed the memorial -- first a great
 
sense of shame, shame for my people, shame for my region;
 
but interwoven with that sense of shame was a feeling of pride,
 
pride in the fact that it was largely Southerners, the people
 
of this region, and in many cases, the people of Montgomery,
 
that waged and fought those battles.  As I put my hand in the
 
water and touched the letters of the names of those killed, I
 
sensed a strange connection to both the slayers and the slain.
 
Newspaper clippings are attached.
 
HUGO: 
SWEETGRASS 
BASKETMAKERS
 
In past reports I have written of the sweetgrass basketmaking
 
tradition of Low Country South Carolina.  Three hundred years
 
ago, slaves, chiefly from the west coast of Africa, were brought,
 
in droves, to the coast of South Carolina to work on that region's
 
many rice plantations.  Among the many culture traits carried from
 
Africa was the practice of making coiled baskets, utilizing the
 
bullrush, pine needles and sweetgrass, found in abundance on the
 
South Carolina sea islands, twisted together to form the coils
 
and stitched together with strips of palmetto fronds.  Over the
 
years, this African-American sea island basketmaking tradition
 
has evolved into a craft of unsurpassed artistry, and is one of
 
the most striking examples of African-American decorative art.
 
Mary Jane Manigault, one of the tradition's premiere practitioners,
 
was honored with an Endowment National Heritage Award in 1983.
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Three
 
In recent years, the tradition has come under increasing threat
 
by resort development in coastal South Carolina.
 The once abundant
 
sweetgrass stands have been built over or have become increasingly
 
unavailable causing the basketmakers to travel as far as Florida
 
in search of new stands of the wild grass.
 Some of the problems
 
surrounding the increasing unavailability of raw materials were
 
addressed in a 1988 conference supported by the Endowment's Folk
 
Arts Program.
 
Hugo has now dealt the basketmakers a crippling blow.
 Nearly
 
all of the dozens of basketmakers have lived in the Hamlin
 
Beach area of Mt. Pleasant, just north of Charleston, for
 
generations.
 It was there that the leading northeastern edge
 
of Hugo, the most vicious part of the storm, first came ashore.
 
Most of the basketmakers had just stocked up on their winter
 
supply of sweetgrass, now a purchased commodity as gatherers
 
travel to Florida to obtain the wild grass.
 In the homes of
 
most basketmakers is a 3-4 year inventory of baskets.
 The
 
traditional marketing system, basket stand displays along US
 
Highway 17 and similarly large sidewalk displays at the old
 
slave market in downtown Charleston, has always required large,
 
highly visible inventories.
 Basket stands, basketmaking supplies,
 
basket inventories and, in some cases, basketmakers' homes, were
 
all washed away by Hugo, prompting Mary Jane Manigault to comment
 
"I don't have nothing left but my life."
 
The Sweetgrass Basketmakers Association, a by-product of last
 
year's conference, is making efforts to organize assistance
 
from the South Carolina Arts Commission -- assistance in
 
replenishing supplies, rebuilding highway stands, and repairing
 
and rebuilding home studios.
 The next few months will prove
 
critical in the survival of this 300-year-old African-American
 
tradition.  Many of the basketmakers are poor and elderly, and
 
their extended families are heavily-dependent on their basket-
selling income, now more dependent than ever as many of the
 
low-wage jobs held by other family members -- in the hotel
 
industry and pulpwood timber business-- have become non-existent
 
after Hugo's heavy damage to those two major anchors in the
 
local economy.
 
MUSIC:
 THE NEW
 
WORLD SYMPHONY 
In the past I have written of the rapid growth and achievement
 
of the three-year-old Miami City Ballet.  No less amazing is the
 
success of Miami's two-year-old New World Symphony Orchestra,
 
due, in no small measure, to the fortuitous coming together of a
 
handful of talented, dedicated individuals and an exceptionally
 
dedicated patron.
 So how did it happen?
 
Three years ago the orchestra was just a gleam in the eye of
 
Grant Beglarian, director of the Miami-based National Foundation
 
for Advancement in the Arts.
 Beglarian asked Jeffrey Babcock,
 
then director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Institute, to
 
draft a rough budget for a national youth training orchestra.
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Four
 
Before Babcock knew i
t he was being recruited to help give
 
birth to Beglarian's dream.  Babcock, in turn, recruited
 
Michael Tilson Thomas to be conductor.  With Babcock and
 
Thomas on board, Beglarian went to local patron Ted Arison
 
(
Carnival Cruise Lines) who agreed to provide major funding.
 
For three grueling months Babcock auditioned 1
,000 recent
 
conservatory graduates to find 90 top-notch players for the
 
orchestra's first season, and the auditions have become a
 
continuing process (
musicians are provided room and board and
 
small salaries, but can stay with the symphony a maximum of
 
three years).  As the Ft. Lauderdale-based Philharmonic Orchestra
 
of Florida has steadily grown and matured in i
ts own right, early
 
talk of the New World being a "scab orchestra" has died down and
 
the rest of the story is history.
 
Beginning its third season last month the orchestra has received
 
rave reviews.
 "The new orchestra is a stunner, a highly accomplished,
 
already polished band of virtuoso players of striking resources
 
(
Los Angeles Times)," "Magnificence in the Making (Miami-Herald),"
 
"
...a virtuoso orchestra, powerful and precise, nimble and colorful
 
(
Washington Post)."  This summer the orchestra was highly acclaimed
 
in its European debut at the new Paris Opera, and toured South
 
America to much applause.  And on December 14 the orchestra will
 
make its Carnegie Hall debut.
 
And last month the orchestra debuted in Miami Beach's Lincoln
 
Theater, a fifty-four year-old movie house that is being adapted
 
as the orchestra's home, at least until a new major performing
 
arts center is completed, which is at least 3-4 years down the
 
road (
see attached article).
 
STATES:
 
KENTUCKY 
After a year of internal and public turmoil, things seem to
 
have quieted a bit at the Kentucky Arts Council.  Problems
 
began two years ago when Governor Wallace Wilkinson appointed
 
Lanette Thurman state arts commissioner.  Thurman's intrusive
 
style proved difficult for many of the arts council's staff
 
members, prompting numerous resignations and culminating in
 
executive director Roger Paige's quitting, citing problems
 
working "with a system that has become more politicized."
 
Thurman left many of the staff positions unfilled reducing
 
staff to three (
including clerical) by early summer.
 
Last month Thurman resigned her position as chair of the
 
Kentucky Arts Council (
a position to which she had appointed
 
herself upon becoming commissioner) and appointed Marlow Burt,
 
director of the Kentucky Center for the Arts, as acting director
 
of the Kentucky Arts Council.  The appointment of Burt, who is
 
closely connected to Louisville's major arts organizations, has
 
rekindled some old urban-rural rivalries, and many folks around
 
the state are still calling for Thurman's resignation; but the
 
situation is markedly quieter than it was last summer (
articles
 
attached).
 
J
  
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Five
 
THEATRE: ALABAMA 
SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL
 
Alabama Shakespeare Festival managing director Jim Volz
 
called it a "major risk," but ASF's production of "All
 
God's Dangers," now playing at New York's Lamb Theater,
 
proved to be an artistic and financial success, and may
 
mark the beginning of a significant change in the theatre's
 
artistic vision.
 
Last year, founding artistic director Martin Platt resigned
 
amidst much controversy claiming that the theatre's board
 
wanted to change artistic directions to pursue more popular,
 
audience-pleasing pieces.  Platt's critics countered, saying
 
Shakespeare would always be the theatre's major underpinning,
 
but they also wanted to try more original productions,
 
particularly the work of contemporary Southern playwrights.
 
"All God's Dangers," an original adaptation of Ted Rosengarten's
 
oral history of politically active black Alabama sharecropper
 
Nate Shaw, is the first of such enterprises, and, by all accounts,
 
has proven to be an artistic and financial success, and has done
 
much to begin to allow the state theatre to start to more
 
effectively serve a wider audience.
 
For whatever my opinion is worth, I thought Cleavon Little gave
 
an outstanding performance in the starring role, though I think
 
the adaptation could still use a little work.  However, I applaud
 
ASF for the effort and hope new artistic director Kent Thompson
 
will try more of the same (
article attached).
 
VISUAL ARTS:
 
PUBLIC ART TROUBLE
  
IN MIAMI, PUBLIC ART
 
EDUCATION IN VIRGINIA
  
AND MORE ON "THE FINGER-
PRINTED WORD"
 
Six months ago I wrote of trouble with Dade County's (Miami)
 
Art in Public Places Program.  Although the 1973 legislation
 
calls for art in public places to be funded with not less than
 
1
.5 percent of the construction cost of new governmental
 
buildings, the lack of an automatic transfer mechanism (
as
 
there is in New Orleans and Dallas) and the lack of an enforcement
 
mechanism, combined with the typical local political atmosphere of
 
Miami, has made collection of the percent for art near impossible.
 
According to estimates, the Public Art Program is owed anywhere
 
from $4.6 million to $17 million by local government agencies.
 
When I reported in the spring, it seemed the problems might be
 
rectified when County manager Joaquin Avino ordered an audit of
 
who owed what, then said no construction contracts would be signed
 
until the appropriate art funds had been set aside.
 
Six months later the situation has not improved.  The audited
 
county agencies are kicking and screaming every step of the
 
way demanding new audits, "micro-definitions" of "new construction,"
 
and legally challenging the County manager's collection authority.
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Six
 
The Dade transit authority, in particular, is hitting way
 
below the belt in its efforts to avoid paying the $800,000.
 
the audit says it owes.
 "Even if the money is found,we need
 
to spend $1.5 million on better security; we've had three
 
rapes  (
at Metrorail stations) and two murders."
 
In the meantime, Isamu Noguchi's "Slide Mantra,"
 
sculpture destined for downtown Miami's Bayfront
 
be lost because the Art in Public Places Program
 
up with the $445,000. commissioning price even as
 
is owed millions by local public agencies.
 
a marble
 
Park,may
 
can't come
 
the Program
 
Art Services Network, the non-profit artist services organization
 
headquartered in Richmond, Virginia, recently announced "Public
 
Art:
 A Virginia Project."  The project will be a collection of
 
hypothetical public art projects envisioned and drawn by artists
 
throughout the state.
 The collection of ideas and conceptual
 
plans for actual sites will be made available to architects,
 
designers, city planners, percent-for-art programs, and chambers
 
of commerce.
 The program's goal is to educate artists about
 
the public art process and to introduce Virginia artists to
 
administrators of public art programs.
 Do you suppose they'll
 
get hypothetical checks for their hypothetical public art projects?
 
In my recent report to the Council, I spoke of the current
 
fascination with those so-called "outsider" visual artists
 
from the South, chief among them, north Georgia's Howard
 
Finster.
 I concurred with folklorist John Vlach's assessment
 
of the phenomenon -- "A fraud perpetrated by the New York art
 
establishment,  '
The Finger-Painted Word'  (
in reference to Tom
 
Wolfe's  '
The Painted Word')," a commercial exploitation of the
 
stereotypical view of "Southerners as crackers, as weird, as
 
inbred, full of pellagra and cholera and any other disease,
 
biological or psychological."
 
I see now where two books on Finster have recently hit the
 
stores with a third due out next month.
 One reviewer called
 
Howard Finster:  Man of Visions, "strikingly Finsterish....
 
the preacher's thoughts and inspirations and weird spellings
 
are laid out in his own hand for us to see."  I find this as
 
grossly exploitative as the old "Negro dialect" publications
 
popular earlier in this century.
 
In contrast is the exhibition "Personal Visions:
 Bessie Harvey
 
and Homer Green," organized by Tennessee Arts Commission Folk
 
Arts coordinator Roby Cogswell, and currently exhibited in the
 
Commission gallery.
 Cogswell has made a conscious attempt to
 
show these artists with dignity and to educate the viewing public.
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Seven
 
Says Cogswell of the exhibit, "it aspires to say something
 
about what they have in common with each other and with all
 
artists of this sort.  Too often their work is shown and sold
 
in a way that is entirely detached from the artist.  Knowing
 
little of their personality and outlook, people miss meanings,
 
read things into their art, or judge it by standards that have
 
nothing to do with their creative processes.  Knowing little
 
about the art world they are routinely taken advantage of by
 
buyers and dealers."
 
MEETINGS/EVENTS
  
Grants Workshop, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama
 
Gina Hedberg, Grants Development Specialist, University of
 
South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama
 
Alabama State Council on the Arts Quarterly Meeting, Montgomery,
 
Alabama
 
Joe Schenk, Director, Fine Arts Museum of the South, Mobile,
 
Alabama
 
Jo Patton, visual artist, Fairhope, Alabama
 
Marie Nickerson, visual artist, Mobile, Alabama
 
Denise Griffin, Mainstreet Program, Mobile, Alabama
 
Bruce Morgan, Saenger Theatre, Mobile, Alabama
 
Diane Frank, photographer, Mobile, Alabama
 
Joaquin Holloway, Culture in Black and White, Mobile, Alabama
 
Eugene Williams, Television Production Center, Leflore High
 
School, Mobile, Alabama
 
Ruth Belasco, Fine Arts Department, Spring Hill College,
 
Mobile, Alabama
 
Mary Lois Adshead, Jubilee Fish Theatre Company, Fairhope, Alabama
 
Mimi Alidor, interdisciplinary artist, Mobile, Alabama
 
Casey Downing, sculptor, Mobile, Alabama
 
Southern Arts Exchange, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Ian McCall, presenter/producer, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Kathie DeNobriga, Executive Director, Alternate ROOTS, Atlanta
 
Georgia
 
Peggy Bulger, Folk Arts Coordinator, Southern Arts Federation,
 
Atlanta, Georgia
 
T
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Eight
 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities Scholarship
 
Recipients Reception, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Jane Hiatt, Director, Mississippi Arts Commission, Jackson, MS
 
Frank Ratka, Executive Director, Georgia Council on the Arts,
 
Tucker, Georgia
 
Bill Anschell, Jazz Coordinator, Southern Arts Federation,
 
Atlanta, Georgia
 
Tamara Caulkins, guitarist, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
 
File'  (Cajun music) performance, Baton Rouge, Louisiana
 
"Can I Speak for You Brother?" African-American Drama
 
Company, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Anthony Morgan Dance Company performance, Southern Arts Exchange,
 
Atlanta, Georgia
 
The Foxfire Boys  (
bluegrass) performance, Rabun Gap, Georgia
 
American Folklore Society Annual Meeting, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
 
Miami City Ballet performance, Montgomery, Alabama
 
Edward Villella, artistic director, Miami City Ballet, Miami, Florida
 
Atlanta Ballet II performance, Atlanta, Georgia
 
Chris Neal, curator, Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts, Montgomery, AL
 
Julia Bell, Regional Coordinator, South Carolina Arts Commission,
 
Columbia, South Carolina
 
Diane Abbey, Director, Office of Cultural Affairs, Charleston,
 
South Carolina
 
Susan Williamson, Chairman, South Carolina Arts Foundation,
 
Charleston, South Carolina
 
Suzette Surkamer, Deputy Director, South Carolina Arts Commission,
 
Columbia, South Carolina
 
Marie Land, President, Clarendon County Arts Council, Manning,
 
South Carolina
 
Abbie Wilson, Director, Williamsburg Art Center, Kingstree,
 
South Carolina
 
Susie Solomon, Director, Georgetown Arts Council, Georgetown,
 
South Carolina
 
r
 
Henry Willett
 
OCTOBER Report
 
Page Nine
 
Barbara Huell, Director, African-American Cultural Center,
 
Georgetown, South Carolina
 
Frank McNutt, Regional Coordinator, South Carolina Arts Commission,
 
Columbia, South Carolina
 
McClellanville Arts Council Emergency Meeting, McClellanville,
 
South Carolina
 
Ted Rosengarten, writer, McClellanville, South Carolina
 
Hugo Assessment Meeting for Artists and Organizations, Gibbes
 
Museum, Charleston, South Carolina
 
Hugo Assessment Meeting for Artists and Organizations, Georgetown,
 
South Carolina
 
H
.L. Mencken r
eferred t
o t
he S
outh a
s
 t
he "
Sahara o
f t
he
 
Bozart." Mencken's v
iew o
f t
he S
outh was n
ot o
f a
 r
egion
 
c
onducive t
o
 t
he f
l
owering o
f
 American e
s
thetic e
xpression.
 
What Mencken s
aw was a
 p
oor a
grarian l
andscape w
ith a
 
p
opulation p
ossessing what S
outhern h
istorian W.J. Cash
 
h
ad c
haracterized a
s "
aversion a
nd s
uspicion t
owards n
ew
 
i
deas, a
n i
ncapacity f
or a
nalysis, a
n i
nclination t
o a
ct f
rom
 
f
eeling r
a
ther t
han f
rom t
hought, a
n e
xaggerated i
ndividu-
a
l
ism a
nd a
 t
oo-narrow c
oncept o
f s
ocial r
esponsibility."
 
What Mencken d
id n
ot s
ee b
eneath t
he s
urface o
f t
his
 
p
oor S
outhern a
grarian l
andscape was a
 b
ountiful s
tore o
f
 
v
ibrant a
r
tistic e
xpression c
reated t
hrough a
 c
ultural c
olli-
s
i
on o
f
 A
frican a
nd B
ritish e
s
thetic t
raditions. The S
outhern
 
h
istorical e
xperiences o
f i
solation, s
uffering, r
e
ligious f
un-
d
amentalism, a
nd a
 l
oyalty t
o
 p
lace e
ndowed S
outhern r
ural
 
e
xpression w
ith a
 c
ertain v
i
tality. I
t b
ecame a
 v
ery r
eal
 
e
xpression o
f t
he e
xperiences o
f r
ural S
outhern l
i
fe.
 
The a
r
tistic h
eritage o
f
 t
he r
ural S
outh was n
urtured a
nd
 
c
elebrated i
n t
hose S
outhern i
nstitutions s
uch a
s r
oad
 
h
ouses a
nd j
uke j
o
ints t
hat s
ustained t
he b
lues, a
nd i
n
 t
he
 
small c
ountry c
hurches t
hat b
irthed g
ospel. Audiences were
 
a
t
tracted t
o t
he t
raveling medicine s
hows t
hat p
eddled p
o-
t
ent r
emedies a
nd e
ntertainment. Audiences were l
i
kewise
 
a
t
tracted t
o t
hose t
heater t
roupes a
nd s
howboats t
hat
 
t
oured t
he a
r
ts t
o r
ural a
reas t
hroughout t
he S
outh.
 
A
 r
egional v
i
sual e
s
thetic was s
haped b
y a
 c
ollective s
ense
 
o
f d
esign, p
roducing a
 u
nique v
ernacular a
rchitectural
 
l
andscape. And a
 l
abor-intensive u
t
ilitarian f
ami
ly-crafts
 
i
ndustry p
roduced i
t
s own v
i
sual a
r
ts l
egacy.
 
The t
wentieth c
entury b
rought v
arious e
conomic a
nd
 
S
u
M Wier, 
P39 7
 
NURTURING ART
 
IN THE
 
RURAL SOUTH
 
b
y HENRY WILLETT
 
t
echnological c
hanges t
o t
he r
ural S
outh, r
endering o
b-
s
o
lete many o
f t
hose i
nstitutions a
nd mechanisms t
hat h
ad
 
h
elped n
urture a
 u
nique S
outhern r
ural a
r
tistic h
eritage. I
n
 
r
ecent y
ears, h
owever, many o
f
 t
hose i
nstitutions a
nd mech-
a
nisms h
ave b
een r
ediscovered a
nd a
re b
eing a
dapted a
nd
 
r
eapplied, p
roviding many r
ural a
reas w
ith a
 n
ew s
ense o
f
 
a
r
tistic v
i
tality.
 
The music o
f t
he r
ural S
outh i
s
 t
he most w
idely r
ecog-
n
ized o
f
 t
he r
egion's t
raditional a
r
tistic r
i
ches. I
t
 s
peaks o
f
 
t
he j
oys, s
orrows, t
r
iumphs, a
nd t
ragedies o
f
 l
i
fe i
n
 t
he r
ural
 
S
outh, a
nd h
as s
erved a
s t
he i
nspiration f
or many o
f t
h
is
 
c
ountry's major g
enres i
n p
opular music. Many c
l
assical
 
c
omposers, e
ver s
ince Louis Moreau Gottschalk d
rew u
pon
 
Louisiana b
lack, C
reole a
nd Caribbean s
ources f
or h
is m
id-
n
ineteenth c
entury c
ompositions, h
ave v
iewed t
he music o
f
 
t
he r
ural S
outh a
s a
 s
ource o
f i
nspiration.
 
The s
pecial c
haracteristics o
f l
i
fe i
n t
he r
ural S
outh
 
p
rovided t
he music w
ith a
 u
nique e
ndurance a
nd i
dentity
 —
 
a
 S
outhern "
style." Music s
cholar A
lan Lomax c
harac-
t
erizes t
h
is s
tyle a
s r
esulting f
rom s
ecurity n
eeds: "The
 
p
rimary e
ffect o
f music i
s
 t
o g
ive t
he l
i
stener a
 f
eeling o
f
 
s
ecurity, f
or i
t
 s
ymbolizes t
he p
lace where h
e was b
orn, h
is
 
e
arliest c
hildhood s
a
tisfaction, h
is r
e
ligious e
xperience, h
is
 
p
leasure i
n
 c
ommunity d
oings, h
is c
ourtship, a
nd h
is work
 
— a
ny o
r a
l
l o
f t
hese p
ersonality-shaping e
xperiences."
 
Country music l
egend Hank Williams s
poke n
o l
e
ss e
lo-
q
uently o
f r
ural S
outhern music: "When a
 h
i
llbilly s
ings a
 
c
razy s
ong, h
e f
eels c
razy. When h
e s
ings `
I
 L
aid My Mother
 
Away,' h
e s
ees h
er a
-
laying i
n t
he c
off
in. He s
ings more
 
s
incere t
han most e
ntertainers b
ecause t
he h
i
llbilly was
 
1
9
 
B
anjo-maker Arlin Moon o
f Holly Pond, A
labama,
 
i
s
 a
 master a
r
tist i
n t
he Endowment-funded Apprenticeship P
rogram.
 
r
a
ised r
ougher t
han most e
ntertainers. You g
ot t
o
 k
now a
 l
o
t
 
a
bout h
ard work. You g
ot t
o h
ave smelt a
 l
o
t o
f mule
 
manure b
efore y
ou c
an s
ing l
i
ke a
 h
i
llbilly. The p
eople who
 
h
as b
een r
a
ised s
omething l
i
ke t
he way t
he h
i
llbilly h
as,
 
k
nows what h
e i
s
 s
inging a
bout a
nd a
ppreciates i
t
."
 
I
n h
is e
arly c
areer Hank Williams t
raveled t
he r
ural
 
S
outh, p
laying a
t
 s
choolhouses, c
ountry f
a
irs, h
onky-tonks
 
a
nd medicine s
hows. B
y t
he e
nd o
f
 h
is b
rief c
areer h
e was a
 
n
ational c
ommercial p
henomenon. I
n a
 s
ense, Williams was
 
b
oth t
he p
roduct a
nd c
ulmination o
f a
 c
ommercial music
 
p
henomenon w
ith r
oots s
unk d
eep i
n
 t
he r
ural S
outh, r
oots
 
t
hat s
i
gnaled a
 S
outhern r
ural s
tyle.
 
The i
solation o
f t
he r
ural S
outh h
elped t
o n
urture a
 
c
ertain musical s
tyle, a
nd t
hat s
ame i
solation a
l
so l
ed t
o
 t
he
 
c
e
lebration o
f
 t
hat s
t
yle. Any r
ural e
vent, f
rom a
 b
arn r
a
ising
 
t
o a
 p
olitical r
a
lly, m
ight b
e a
n o
ccasion f
or music, a
nd
 
music was t
oured a
l
l o
ver t
he r
ural S
outh t
hrough t
ent
 
s
hows, s
howboats, i
t
inerant musicians, a
nd t
he e
ver-
p
resent medicine s
hows.
 
The r
ural S
outhern c
hurch p
rovided a
 d
urable music
 
e
ducation, a
nd, b
eginning i
n
 t
he "Great Awakening" y
ears
 
o
f t
he e
arly n
ineteenth c
entury, c
i
rcuit-riding s
inging
 
s
choolmasters t
raveled f
rom c
ommunity t
o c
ommunity
 
t
hroughout t
he r
ural S
outh, s
t
aying f
or s
everal weeks a
t
 a
 
s
top, t
eaching t
he r
udiments o
f
 h
armony s
inging "
by n
ote,"
 
a
nd p
roviding w
idespread p
ublicity f
or t
he S
acred Harp
,
 
K
entucky Harmony, V
irginia Harmony
, S
outhern Harmony
,
 
a
nd o
ther r
e
ligious s
ong b
ooks.
 
The b
eginnings o
f t
he r
ural e
lectrif
ication o
f t
he S
outh,
 
a
nd e
vents i
n
 t
he d
evelopment o
f
 t
he r
adio a
nd p
honograph
 
i
ndustries i
n
 t
he 1
920's, p
rovided a
 c
atalyst i
n
 a
l
lowing r
ural
 
S
outherners t
o c
elebrate t
heir c
ulture t
hrough t
he e
lec-
t
ronic media. R
adio S
tation WSB i
n
 A
tlanta l
ed t
he way i
n
 
r
egular, l
i
ve p
rogramming o
f
 l
ocal r
ural musicians i
ncluding
 
a
 b
l
ind g
ospel s
inger, R
everend Andrew
 J
enkins, a
nd "
Fid-
d
l
in"
'John Carson, a
 Georgia moonshiner, h
ouse p
ainter,
 
a
nd p
olitical c
ampaign musician. Nashville's WSM f
ol-
l
owed w
ith i
t
s S
aturday n
ight "WSM B
arn Dance," a
nd
 
s
oon, r
adio s
t
ations t
hroughout t
he S
outh were p
rogram-
m
ing r
ural musicians a
nd s
ingers, f
rom s
t
ring b
ands t
o
 
g
ospel q
uartets, f
or r
ural a
udiences.
 
The r
ecord c
ompanies, i
ncluding V
ictor, Okeh,
 
Vocalion, Columbia, a
nd P
aramount b
egan s
ending f
i
eld
 
a
gents i
n
to t
he r
ural S
outh i
n s
earch o
f r
ecording a
r
tists.
 
R
alph P
eer, a
 f
i
eld a
gent working f
or V
ictor Talking
 
Machine Company, "
discovered" J
immy Rodgers a
nd t
he
 
C
arter F
amily f
rom Maces S
prings, V
irginia, d
uring a
 s
ingle
 
s
ession i
n
 B
ristol, V
irginia, i
n
 l
a
te 1
927. Other r
ecord c
om-
p
any f
i
eld a
gents f
ound a
 wealth o
f S
outhern b
lues a
nd
 
g
ospel s
ingers i
ncluding Charley P
atton, "Blind L
emon"
 
J
efferson, "Papa" Charlie J
ackson, t
he Reverend J
.M.
 
Gates, a
nd t
he B
irmingham
 J
ubilee S
ingers. I
nto t
he 1
940's,
 
t
he e
lectronic media s
erved a
s a
n e
ffective mechanism i
n
 
a
l
lowing t
he r
ural S
outh t
o e
ngage i
n a
 musical s
e
lf-
c
elebration.
 
I
n c
rafts a
nd a
rchitecture, t
oo, t
here d
eveloped d
is-
t
i
nctive S
outhern s
tyles n
urtured t
hrough i
solation, l
ack o
f
 
i
ndustrialization, a
nd a
 l
abor-intensive e
conomy. I
n l
a
te
 
n
ineteenth-century A
labama, f
or i
nstance, t
here were s
ome
 
6
0 o
r 7
0 r
ural p
otteries i
n
 o
peration, p
roviding s
turdy u
t
il-
2
0
 
Master b
oatbuilder B
ill Holland w
ith a
pprentice
 
J
eff B
roussard o
f Back Bay, Mississippi.
 
i
t
arian v
essels p
ossessing s
ingularly S
outhern a
lkaline
 
g
lazes a
nd e
xecuted i
n
 a
 d
istinctive, a
lmost m
inimalist s
tyle.
 
A
 n
umber o
f
 t
hose r
ural p
otters may h
ave l
i
ved i
n
 d
ogtrot o
r
 
s
hotgun h
ouses, u
niquely S
outhern e
xamples o
f
 v
ernacular
 
a
rchitecture a
nd b
oth embodiments o
f
 t
he S
outhern h
istor-
i
c
al e
xperience — t
he d
ogtrot, a
 c
l
imatological a
daptation
 
o
f
 English, German, a
nd S
candinavian a
rchitectural f
orms,
 
a
nd t
he s
hotgun (
possibly d
erived f
rom t
he Yoruba
 
"
togun," meaning "
house"), a
n Afro-Caribbean f
orm
 
b
rought t
o t
he S
outh b
y b
lacks f
rom Haiti i
n t
he e
arly
 
n
ineteenth c
entury. The d
evelopment o
f a
 d
istinctive
 
S
outhern r
ural v
i
sual e
s
thetic was s
ustained i
n
to t
he 1
940's
 
b
y t
he r
egion's i
solation, l
ack o
f i
ndustrialization, l
abor-
i
n
tensive e
conomy, a
nd a
 c
onservative t
radition where f
orm
 
a
nd t
echnique were d
ictated b
y t
he c
ollective memory a
nd
 
t
he u
se o
f l
ocally a
vailable materials.
 
B
y t
he 1
940's, t
he r
ural S
outh was u
ndergoing a
 d
ramatic
 
t
r
ansition, a
s t
r
ansportation i
mproved, e
lectricity b
ecame
 
t
he n
orm, a
nd a
 c
ash e
conomy r
eplaced a
 l
abor-intensive
 
e
conomy. These d
ramatic c
hanges c
ombined t
o t
hreaten
 
t
he t
raditional mechanisms f
or p
reserving a
nd c
elebrating
 
r
ural a
r
tistic e
xpression.
 
The e
arly i
n
terest o
f t
he r
adio a
nd r
ecord i
ndustries i
n
 
r
ural r
egional p
rogramming h
ad c
ontributed t
oward t
he
 
d
ecline o
f t
hose e
arlier mechanisms — t
he b
arn d
ances,
 
r
oad h
ouses, t
ent s
hows, j
uke j
o
ints, a
nd medicine s
hows.
 
But b
y t
he 1
940's, t
he e
lectronic media h
ad b
ecome i
n
-
c
reasingly c
ommercial a
nd n
onregional, a
nd l
e
ss i
nclined t
o
 
p
rogram S
outhern r
ural music.
 
E
lectrification, mail-order c
atalogs, i
ndustrialization,
 
Tom R
ankin
 
Potter Norman Smith o
f L
awley, A
labama, i
n t
he 1
930'x.
 
Courtesy: Norman Smith.
 
a
nd t
he i
nf
lux o
f
 c
ash i
n
to t
he e
conomy s
imilarly t
hreatened
 
t
he c
rafts a
nd a
rchitectural t
r
aditions o
f t
he r
ural S
outh.
 
The s
toneware s
torage v
essel was r
eplaced b
y t
he e
lectric
 
r
efrigerator a
nd g
lass c
anning j
a
r, a
nd t
he d
ogtrot h
ouse
 
was r
eplaced b
y t
he mobile h
ome.
 
S
t
ill s
erving i
mportant s
ocial f
unctions b
ut r
emoved f
rom
 
most o
f
 i
t
s e
conomic s
upport s
ystems, S
outhern r
ural a
r
tis-
t
i
c e
xpression s
uddenly f
ound i
t
self i
n
 t
he n
onprof
it world.
 
Unfortunately, t
hose s
ame f
actors t
hat h
ad h
elped b
reed
 
u
nique S
outhern r
ural e
sthetic s
tyles — t
hat i
s
, i
solation,
 
p
overty, s
uffering, a
nd l
oyalty t
o p
lace — l
e
ft t
he r
ural
 
S
outh l
acking i
n
 t
he n
onprof
it mechanisms f
or t
he p
rotec-
t
i
on o
f i
t
s a
r
tistic l
egacy. I
n r
ecent y
ears, h
owever, v
arious
 
i
ndividuals a
nd o
rganizations h
ave d
eveloped c
reative
 
means, many o
f
 t
hem r
evivals a
nd a
daptations o
f
 t
r
aditional
 
mechanisms, f
or n
urturing a
nd p
resentation o
f S
outhern
 
r
ural e
xpression. I
n many c
ases, t
he Endowment h
as
 
p
rovided c
atalytic s
upport o
f t
hese c
reative mechanisms.
 
E
ighty-nine-year-old Dewey Williams, f
rom Ozark, A
la-
b
ama, was a
 1
983 r
ecipient o
f a
n Endowment National
 
Heritage F
ellowship. He i
s a
 master p
ractitioner o
f t
he
 
c
entury-old t
radition o
f b
lack s
inging, a
nd r
emembers
 
when i
n
 h
is y
outh e
very r
ural y
oungster i
n s
outh A
labama
 
was t
r
ained i
n
 t
he r
udiments o
f "
shape-note" h
armony b
y
 
i
t
inerant s
inging s
choolmasters. Now, w
ith Endowment
 
s
upport, Williams a
nd o
thers a
ct a
s modern-day c
i
rcuit
 
r
iders c
onducting s
inging s
chools i
n r
ural c
ommunities
 
t
hroughout t
he r
egion, a
nd, w
ith a
 weekly r
adio p
rogram
 
a
nd monthly t
e
levision s
how, h
ave r
estored v
ibrancy t
o a
n
 
i
mportant musical e
xpression. S
imilar s
inging s
chools a
re
 
2
1
 
A
 f
amily g
a
thers a
round t
he r
adio i
n
 t
h
e 1
930's.
 
C
ourtesy o
f
 t
h
e N
ational A
rchives.
 
b
eing s
upported i
n s
outh Georgia a
s well.
 
A c
ontemporary v
ersion o
f t
he t
r
aveling t
ent s
how h
as
 
b
een c
reated b
y Appalshop's Roadside Theater i
n
 Whites-
burg, Kentucky, where d
ramatic p
resentations o
f
 
Appalachian n
arrative a
nd s
ong a
re p
resented t
o
 r
ural c
om-
munities t
hroughout t
he r
egion.
 
I
n Opelousas, Louisiana, t
he c
ommunity c
elebrates i
t
s
 
l
ocal a
r
tistic t
raditions e
ach y
ear w
ith i
t
s z
ydeco f
e
stival, a
 
j
ubilee o
f t
hat u
nique Louisiana musical h
ybrid o
f F
rench
 
Acadian a
nd Afro-Caribbean. And i
n T
ennessee, t
he s
t
ate
 
p
arks h
ave s
erved a
s
 c
ontemporary p
resenting mechanisms
 
f
or t
hat s
t
ate's i
ndigenous r
ural e
xpression. I
n Kentucky,
 
p
lans a
re u
nderway t
o r
evive t
he s
howboat t
radition, p
res-
e
nting t
raditional p
erformers t
o c
ommunities u
p a
nd d
own
 
t
he Kentucky R
iver.
 
The North Carolina Arts Council a
nd S
pirit S
quare Arts
 
Center i
n Charlotte j
o
ined e
fforts, a
nd w
ith Endowment
 
a
ssistance, c
reated a
 c
elebration o
f t
hat c
i
ty's r
i
ch c
ountry
 
music h
eritage, a
nd a
 r
eunion o
f t
hose s
ingers a
nd musi-
c
i
ans who, i
n t
he 1
930's, b
rought t
heir d
istinctive r
ural
 
S
outhern s
ound f
rom t
heir P
iedmont f
arms t
o
 t
he m
ill a
nd
 
f
actory t
own o
f
 Charlotte, f
i
l
ling t
he a
i
rwaves o
f
 Charlotte's
 
WBT a
nd k
eeping RCA V
ictor's r
ecording p
ersonnel b
usy.
 
And t
he A
rchive o
f American Minority Cultures a
t t
he
 
University o
f A
labama h
as h
elped t
o r
evitalize t
he r
i
ch
 
h
armony t
radition o
f b
lack a
 c
appella q
uartet s
inging
 
t
hrough t
he p
roduction o
f
 LP r
ecordings a
nd c
assette t
apes
 
which a
re f
i
nding t
heir way i
n
to h
omes a
nd a
utomobile
 
d
ashboards.
 
Through Endowment-supported a
pprenticeships, t
he
 
2
2
 
s
k
ills o
f s
eptagenerian b
anjo-maker A
rlin Moon a
re b
eing
 
c
arefully c
ultivated b
y h
is y
oung a
pprentice Bonnie R
ay. On
 
B
ack B
ay i
n
 Mississippi, J
eff B
roussard i
s
 l
earning t
he f
i
ne
 
c
raft o
f building B
iloxi s
hrimp l
uggers o
f j
uniper a
nd
 
c
ypress wood f
rom master b
oatbuilder B
ill Holland. And i
n
 
t
i
ny A
shburn, Georgia, t
he c
ommunity h
as l
ovingly r
e
-
s
tored i
t
s n
ineteenth-century o
pen-air t
abernacle which
 
o
nce a
gain s
erves a
s a
 f
orum f
or r
ural a
r
tistic e
xpression,
 
f
rom g
ospel s
ings t
o
 f
i
ddlers' c
onventions. S
imilar t
a
les c
an
 
b
e t
o
ld o
f r
ural c
ommunities t
hroughout t
he S
outh.
 
Over t
wo c
enturies, t
he r
ural S
outh c
ultivated a
 well-
s
pring o
f
 v
ibrant a
r
tistic e
xpression, a
nd d
eveloped a
 v
ari-
e
ty o
f t
r
aditional mechanisms f
or p
reserving a
nd c
elebrat-
i
ng t
hat a
r
tistic e
xpression. With i
ngenuity a
nd c
reativity, a
 
n
umber o
f
 i
ndividuals a
re a
dapting t
hose t
raditional mech-
a
nisms t
o
 c
ontemporary l
i
fe a
nd a
l
lowing t
he r
ural S
outh t
o
 
c
ontinue t
o
 s
hare i
t
s a
r
tistic g
ifts w
ith t
he r
est o
f
 t
h
is n
ation
 
a
nd t
he world.
 0  
Henry Willett, t
he Endowment's R
egional R
epresentative t
o
 t
he S
outhern
 
s
t
ates, i
s
 a
 f
o
lklorist a
nd h
as p
ublished a
 n
umber o
f
 works o
n S
outhern
 
c
ulture. He l
i
ves i
n Montgomery, A
labama.
 
I