Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: October 14, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Mr. William Lawson
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: N/A
Interview Location: Farm of William Lawson, Hamilton Township, Van Buren County,
Michigan
Transcriber: Mabel Scroggins
Abstract: William Lawson is farming land that was originally purchased by his ancestors around
1863. He was raised on his parent’s dairy farm in Cass County, Michigan. Like many African
American farmers he had to work another job in order to purchase his farmland and keep
framing. He has recently purchased more land and now owns more than 300 acres. While he
entered Lake Michigan college in engineering, he always planned to be a farmer. He is a veteran
of the army where he served in Germany from 1958-1962. served in Germany. Worked tool and
die at a number of companies, in order to support the farm. He got his pilot’s license, and flew
his own plane (just renewed his license in 2021 in his 80s). Ancestors were farmers in Berrien
and Cass County. Still owns his parent’s farmland in Cass County, on the Berrien county line. He
purchased back his family’s land in Van Buren County, which he currently farms, in 1964. He
raises mainly corn and beans, and has improved his farmland since purchasing it, including
digging ponds.
Mr. Lawson is a member of the Farm Bureau and now a Board Member of the Van Buren County
Farm Bureau. He is currently the only African-descended person on that board, but he reports
that there used to be others African Americans on the board earlier.
Mr. Lawson and his wife raised three children on their farm, and he planted a walnut tree for
each one of them when they were born.
He is a very good historian and genealogist, and is a community leader.
Mr. Lawson is active in church where he is a deacon, and his great great aunts (members of the
Lane and Mitchell families) were founders of the African American Chain Lake Baptist church
of Cass County, Michigan, founded in the 1830s and one of the oldest Black Baptists churches in
Michigan.
1
Index/Log
1 of 3
[0:00] Introduction to Mr. William Lawson. Details of the size of his farm. William struggles
with self-identification.
[5:00] William discusses his views on skin color, discussion of acquiring farming skills through
trial and error.
[10:00] Details of William entering the armed services, description of William’s siblings, details
of his family’s farm in LaGrange.
[15:00] People ask William “what he is,” details of political identification, William describes that
farmers always strive for improvement.
[20:00] William believes that people hide their knowledge of African American farmers, details
of William’s dreams for the future as a young man. William’s hopes for the future now.
[25:00] He was born at the “edge of famine turning into prosperous times,” details of food grown
on his farm, skin color impacting the ability to sell goods.
[30:00] Description of his grandfather, details of his grandparents having children, growth of his
grandfather’s farm.
[35:00] Details of his grandfather’s dairy farm and business. Problems with racism and trying to
sell the milk. Details of father delivering the milk, list of the essential farm foods.
[40:00] Details of growing and canning fruit on the farm, discussion of seasonal eating,
difficulties of hunting.
[45:00] Details of hunting with a longbow, description of his property, discussions about
homemade furniture from their own wood.
[50:00] William only hunts animals he will eat, his family sold eggs for spending money, details
of his family’s farming gift.
[55:00] Children had to work to help their families, details of walking to school, dangers of
raising cattle in the woods.
[1:02:06] End of Part 1
2