AFC 2012/006: 00332 
 
1 
 
Patrick Seeba interview conducted by Anthony G. Potoczniak 
2012-07-19 
 
 [0:00] Introducing Patrick Seeba (PS), Project Manager at the Greater Houston Port Bureau 
(GHPB).  
 
 [0:29] Patrick Seeba was born in Houston, where he graduated high school and later attended 
University of Houston. PS has several degrees from UH: political science and supply chain logics.  
  
 [1:12] Shares impression about the Port of Houston (POH) growing up; PS’s father runs a 
warehouse off one of the docks near the 610 POH Bridge; PS remembers hearing a lot about 
the POH: the city is here because of the port; recalls how security and access to the ship 
channel were less strict growing up.  
  
 [3:36] Discusses the various levels of security at the POH -- Focus [at the POH has been] given 
to security and access control for cargo and for people; the effects of these changes on 
organizations like the Houston Seafarers Center; which assists visiting sailor with different 
services, has been dramatic; sailors from other countries are now confined to their ships; as a 
result The Seafarers [Center] is now doing outreach  
  
 [7:43] PS explains the increased focus for securing transportation after 9/11; discusses the 
unintended consequences of new regulations, especially the increased interest in the POHs 
activities and economic impact by congressional representatives;  
  
 [12:49] PS provides background how he became interested in the POH, and how he joined the 
GHPB. PS attended the university on a Marine Corp scholarship; moved to Germany for several 
months after graduation and discovered the thing that always interested me is the chess match 
of moving containers...what if I have a container in a dock in a warehouse in the middle of 
China, how do I get it to a Walmart shelf in Peoria?  
  
 [15:45] After a brief trip to Germany, PS applied to a program in supply chain logistics, which 
was taught by representatives from the POH; describes how this experience made him realize 
the importance of the GHPB and how it needed to focus on its core services: understanding 
regulations, tracking ships, and how cargo was being moved; describes humorous story of how 
he got the job at the GHPB working for Capt. Bill Diehl in 2009. PS describes how the mission of 
the GHPB was being redeveloped to stress information brokering for its members.  
  
 [21:55] PS explains how the monthly bulletins became an important outreach tool for its 
members and creating a better product, [so] we can touch more people, and how the bulletin 
become a tool for the GHPB and its members to expand and improve the way we do business 
every day.  
  
AFC 2012/006: 00332 
 
2 
 
 [25:00] Comparison of the function of the Port of Houston Authority, which works with 
government agencies, and the GHPB, which serves as a trade association for the private 
terminals, Houston Pilots, and other stakeholders.  
  
 [29:27] PS details some of the on-going work at the POH from dredging to administering the 
harbor maintenance tax. An example of this work is described in a luncheon with Lt. Gov David 
Dewhurst about what the state office can do to help the port.  
  
 [34:01] PS outlines the core mission of the Port Bureau, our specialty is working with the 
Regulators, and his role in an aging industry: I provide information.  
  
 [37:10] PS describes the work of the Marine Exchange at Morgans point, which tracked ships 
entering the POH; run mostly by retired individuals; provides a detailed account of how 24 
types of companies are involved to get cargo from the ship into the stores/warehouses; lists the 
processes and types of people involved; the challenges of making these entities work together: 
sometimes it means competing interests; with a business goal in mind: terminals want to 
always be full.  
  
 [42:54] PS describes the uniqueness of Houston port culture: we have a competitively 
cooperative culture that astounds people! By underscoring how the GHPB can help competitors 
collectively: what do we do to make this problem for the region go away? Or, how do you make 
them agree without lawyers? PS describes a common practice at the GHPB of convening the 
players and stakeholders to help recognize the present problems experienced by all industries.  
  
 [46:15] Shares a story of how the GHPB was able to get consensus with the industry’s adoption 
of the Automatic Identification System (AIS), which is now required by all ships to improve the 
tracking of their movement in the channel. It was for the GHPB a proof of concept of how it can 
help the industry collectively.  
  
 [49:00] PS provides another example with HarborLights, a harbor management system, which 
is another information product of the GHPB.  
  
 [54:50] PS describes the challenge of other American ports of adopting the HarborLights 
system for their ports. The opposition is what I’ve got works for me: why would I do it 
differently...   
  
 [57:30] PS shares about the GHPB partnership with the broader community: Living in the 
community, you get very good results, because you can harness the power of everybody.  
  
 [01:00:00] PS describes how ports have to remain competitive to continue retain clients, and to 
attract future customers.  
  
AFC 2012/006: 00332 
 
3 
 
 [01:05:00] PS states that the POH has the advantage that all its customers share 52 mile 
channel: if a problem that affects one, it can affect all. Shares the example of the barge hitting 
the power transmission line, which closed the entire POH for several days.  
  
 [01:09:30] The GHPB is involved in many issues of the port as librarians of the port. PS explains 
how the GHPB stays involved -- the logistics of knowing how to get sweat equity out of the 
channel, so we can inform others on the channel is its primary objective.  
  
 [01:11:21] PS states how the ability to use this information to help others is an important 
function of the GHPB (01:13:45); if I can do something for one customer, it is rare that I can’t 
use this information to help someone else.  
  
 [01:14:30] PS describes a recent achievement at the GHPB, when it hosted a congressional 
delegation about security at the port. The 3 - 4 hour discussion highlighted how the POH 
impacts employment in the Houston. These types of event have emphasized the POH as one of 
the crown jewels of the city.  
  
 [01:20:19] PS states there are a lot of opportunities at the POH, but the number of young 
prospective employees coming into the industry remains too small. The Port Authority is 
pushing for the maritime industries to help underserved populations and expand outreach to 
these communities with the purpose of attracting younger people into the industry.  
  
 [01:23:12] Conclusion of the interview.