Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 1 of 23 
 
Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2011 
 
 
Interviewee:    
Ms. Jamila Jones 
Interview date:   
April 27, 2011   
Location:   
 
Artmore Hotel, midtown Atlanta, Georgia     
Interviewer:   
Joseph Mosnier, Ph.D. 
Videographer:   
John Bishop   
Length:  
 
49:27  
 
[Sound of sirens in background] 
John Bishop:  Okay. 
Joe Mosnier:  Today is Wednesday, April 27, 2011.  We’re in Atlanta, Georgia, at 
the Artmore Hotel in midtown Atlanta, with Ms. Jamila Jones, um, to conduct an oral 
history for the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture 
project entitled “The Civil Rights History Project.”  My name is Joe Mosnier of the 
Southern Oral History Program at UNC-Chapel Hill, and our videographer is Mr. John 
Bishop.  Ms. Jones, good morning.  Thanks so much for sitting down. 
Jamila Jones:  Good morning – 
JM:  Appreciate – 
JJ:  And thank you for having me. 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 2 of 23 
 
JM:  Appreciate your effort to get up with us, um, during this Atlanta visit.  It’s 
really nice to see you.  Thank you.  Um, let me start today, um, as we enter into, enter 
into a conversation about, um, your work in the Southern Freedom Movement, um, in the 
’50s, ’60s, and even thereafter, um, talk a little bit about your family, starting with that.  
[Coughing in background].  Can you tell me a little bit about growing up in, um, in 
Montgomery and your family, your parents, and –? 
JJ:  Okay.  I lived with a mother and a grandmother.  Um, I grew up with a 
sibling, my sister, Doris Crenshaw, and a brother, a little younger, about ten years 
younger, John Allen McCloud. 
And I guess key to the Movement is the fact that my sister and I rode the 
Montgomery bus line.  So, we experienced on a daily basis during school the harassment 
that came from the, uh, bus driver.  Uh, and so, I guess that inspired us, or it was 
something in us that, uh, made us relate to, of course, the Montgomery bus boycott. 
JM:  Can you talk a little bit about, um, how you came to know, um, Ms. [Rosa] 
Parks and to join the youth chapter of the local NAACP? 
JJ:  Uh, yes.  In fact, my sister was the one who introduced me to Mrs. Parks, uh, 
as we joined the NAA youth group, NAACP youth group.  Uh, my sister was the vice-
president; I was just a member of that group.  Uh, she would have us into her home.  We 
would sit on the floor.  And she’d give us bits and pieces about life, actually.  And people 
ask quite often if I remember things that she said, and I do not.  Uh, but I know she read 
from, uh, papers, from the, uh, national office of the NAACP. 
And she taught us, uh, that we were important – I can remember that – and that, 
uh, it was key that we, uh, learn our rights, and that, uh, voting was an important aspect 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 3 of 23 
 
of, uh, our lives.  And I can just remember those things about the conversations that she 
had with us.  And she also taught us that, uh, it was important to carry yourself in a good, 
responsible, uh, way.  Uh, after we would meet, she would give us, uh, Kool-Aid and 
cookies. 
JM:  [Laughs] 
JB:  Joe, can we pause for a sec? 
JM:  Certainly. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  We’re on. 
JM:  Uh, Ms. Jones, you mentioned your sister, Doris Crenshaw.  Can you talk a 
little bit about her?  You mentioned she was vice-president, and just describe her a little 
bit. 
JJ:  Yeah, she was like a leader of the bunch.  And whatever she did, basically, I 
did.  Uh, there was, uh, a difference in us, in that I was, uh, mostly interested in the music 
portion of things that happened, and she was more of the leadership-fighter type, uh, 
movement person.  But, uh, she somehow had interest from a very young age in, uh, 
rights and what was right for you.  And she led me down that path. 
JM:  Um-hmm. So, you must have been about eleven years old when the boycott 
began, thereabouts? 
JJ:  I was eleven years old when the boycott started. 
JM:  Yeah.  Um, what are some of your – you know, from this distance, what are 
some of your most vivid, most central, important memories from that experience? 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 4 of 23 
 
JJ:  [Sighs] From that experience, I know that, um, the youth, and Mrs. Knott [?] 
[nb: spelling of name uncertain] often said, had their own [5:00] kind of individual 
movement, that we kind of led ourselves around what was happening with the 
Movement, in that we organized ourselves to get across – what we called across town, uh, 
when we were no longer riding the buses.  And we had to find our own way for survival.  
My sister, being the leader that she was, wouldn’t allow us ever to go and get a ride.  Uh, 
she said we’d be taking up space from an adult and we were going to walk.  So, the 361 
days there was school, we walked. 
JM:  Um-hmm.  Um, when the boycott concluded and some measure of success 
was realized, in some measure on that narrow question of busing, what was your feeling? 
JJ:  It was a joyous feeling, of course.  And no longer we felt that we had to take 
the abuse, uh, that we had experienced on those buses since I was six years old, because I 
started to ride the bus at age six and had done that to age eleven. 
And we found our ways to survive through that.  Uh, it was piercing to see adults 
have to leave, uh, the bus and go around to pay their money, and then get off the bus and 
come to the back of the, uh, bus.  Uh, I almost never had to do that, because we were the 
first stop, so we always found ourselves with a seat. 
But curious as we were, there were times we tested to see what would happen if 
we sat in the front of the bus.  And we did, and, uh, then they would ask us, of course – 
when one white lady got on the bus – I can never forget her.  She had red hair, long hair, 
and when she entered the bus, we would have to get up, even though, um, there were a 
number of seats, and she was the only white to get on that bus.  So, I think that was so 
piercing to us that it nev – I never forgot it.  And, uh, when the bus boycott started, of 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 5 of 23 
 
course, that lived within me, and I knew that I would walk three hundred and what – 
however many days, actually, that, uh, it would take.  And to a six-year-old, you just 
basically are so curious about why is it that we have to get up, that often I would sit 
behind her and, uh, she would choose the same seat each time she got on the bus. 
JM:  This white woman? 
JJ:  This white, uh, woman.  I don’t know her name.  I just remember her face and 
her red hair.  But when she got on the bus, I decided, uh, several times to just feel her 
hair, to see if I could put my little fingers, uh, on the top of the seat to see if it was a 
difference.  What is the difference with her and the rest of us?  And I did.  I would just 
kind of feel that hair like it was an accident.  I don’t know what I concluded from that, 
except that it just gave me a feeling that, uh, I feel she’s really no different.  This hair is 
not so much different from ours.  And, um, that was just my little childhood curiosity and 
how I answered it. 
JM:  Sure.  [Clears throat] 
JJ:  Uh, so that just that one white lady put such, uh, curiosity in me.  And I 
wanted to answer that so much that I, uh, knew that I was going to walk the length of the 
time it would take for us to get to, uh, our goal. 
JM:  Yeah.  Um, when and how did you start singing? 
JJ:  Started singing – we were, um, elementary school students at Alabama State 
Laboratory High School.  And, uh, each Friday we would have a, uh – I would call it a 
talent show.  And we formed this group, uh, three girls – uh, actually it was four of us 
from the beginning – formed this group [10:00] so that we could compete each Friday in 
the, uh, talent contest. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 6 of 23 
 
Somehow, it was something in us that made us want to do freedom songs.  And I 
can’t answer today why we chose that, because we’re about the same age as, uh, Diana 
Ross.  But when we went outside to practice, we practiced freedom songs.  And that’s 
what we would sing.  So, when the Montgomery bus boycott came – we formed this 
group at, uh, around the age nine and ten – uh, we were kind of ready. 
And so because of the songs we were singing, it lent itself to the Movement, we 
were asked to come to sing at practically every tea that was held in Montgomery.  You 
know, uh, during that time, they had a lot of teas that raised money for the Movement, as 
well as other things for the churches.  And they would invite us to come, and I felt like, 
uh, it couldn’t be a tea, or they felt like, uh, they couldn’t have a tea if we didn’t come.  
So, we went all over town to teas on Sunday to participate, and we were kind of carrying 
the message of the Movement, uh, through our songs.  And we were relevant for the time, 
and that’s why they called on us. 
JM:  So, you were – this was a group of four girls, all eleven or twelve years old, I 
guess, in that –? 
JJ:  We were, um – 
JM:  In that moment. 
JJ:  In that moment we were eleven. 
JM:  Do you remember the names of the other girls? 
JJ:  I do.  It was Gladys Carter – because we formed the group and we, uh, all 
through high school, we kept the group.  Uh, Gladys Carter and Minnie Hendricks, now 
McCants – we were the three girls who lasted among the four.  Uh, we decided we were 
going to not only practice at school, but we would practice at each other’s homes.  And 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 7 of 23 
 
that’s how the fourth girl dropped out, because her parents wouldn’t allow her to come 
each evening, or the evenings that we had set for practice.  And thus, it became the four – 
three girls. 
JM:  Did you also – I’m sorry.  Did you also sing in church? 
JJ:  We did.  We would sing in church, but we mostly sang at school at first, 
because, uh, we all went to different churches. 
JM:  Yeah.  Which was your church? 
JJ:  Uh, mine was Mt. Zion A.M.E. Zion church. 
JM:  Was any of the other girls, uh, at Reverend King’s church? 
JJ:  Uh, none of us were, uh, members – 
JM:  Yeah. 
JJ:  Of Reverend King’s church.  Minnie McCants was a member of, uh, 
Reverend [Ralph David] Abernathy’s church. 
JM:  Um-hmm, um-hmm. 
JJ:  I was with, uh, Reverend [Solomon] Seay [pronounces “Say”], Seay 
[pronounces “See”], Seay [pronounces “Say” again], uh, who was – had the first meeting 
for the Montgomery bus boycott, uh, and he was very active. 
JM:  Um-hmm. 
JJ:  As a matter of fact, the, uh, things in your life that cause you to – I guess the 
sum total of things cause you to be what – whatever you are in life.  And, uh, he taught 
each Sunday about accomplishments they had made, uh, toward needs of the black 
community, and I would hear what he had to say.  Uh, so that was one of the influences 
that I had, in terms of my life and, uh, fighting for freedom or struggle. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 8 of 23 
 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Um, let’s see, you must have entered high school around ’57, 
fall of ’57, fall of ’58, I guess? 
JJ:  Yeah, I finished in ’62. 
JM:  Yeah, okay.  Um, and can you describe, um, the –?  I think in the late ’50s, 
because at some point if, if, um, – I’ve read a couple of different accounts, but, um, one 
indicates that you traveled to Highlander Folk School. 
JJ:  I did, but that was before high school.  It was like junior high, I think it was.  
But, um, I was singing, and along with the, uh, my sister being very active, we were 
selected to go to do a kind of like a cultural exchange in terms of our music.  We would 
share the kind of songs that we were singing, and Guy Carawan headed up that, um – the 
workshops.  And people from around the world, actually, because we met people from 
Africa there, uh, would share [15:00] the kind of movement songs they were doing. 
It was because we – our repertoire of songs, of freedom songs, were, uh, great and 
extensive that he asked that we come to, uh, uh, New York to do, uh, freedom songs to 
raise money for the Movement, Southern Movement.  And that’s how we got to Carnegie 
Hall with Reverend [Fred] Shuttlesworth and others, to do that, uh, fundraiser.  And from 
that came one of the first albums of civil rights songs, uh, to be, uh, used, uh, for 
fundraising and that kind of thing. 
And so, we were, uh, the Montgomery Trio.  We did not have a name.  We went 
all over Montgomery before that time, never thought about a name.  Uh, they would just 
say, “The girls,” “We gotta have the girls,” or “The girls this –.”  And when we got there, 
uh, they said, “For this album, you’ve got to have a name.”  So, we debated and debated 
about what could be our name and came up with the Montgomery Gospel Trio. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 9 of 23 
 
JM:  Um-hmm, um-hmm.  How old were you at that time when you went to New 
York? 
JJ:  I want to say I – you know, around sixteen. 
JM:  Yeah.  Just into high school? 
JJ:  Yes. 
JM:  [Coughs] Um, can you, can you talk me through the – your high school 
years, because obviously the Movement will shift into a very active phase while you were 
in high school – 
JJ:  Right. 
JM:  And um, uh, the, um, Freedom Singers will come into being towards the end 
of your high school years.  So, I’m interested in how you move through those years 
singing, protesting, as an activist, young activist. 
JJ:  Yes.  And what happened is that Montgomery – when you have a large-scale 
movement like that, uh, quite often there are a lot of wounds that occur – so, 
Montgomery, um, particularly it – adults, it, uh, the adults could not sit down sometimes 
in the same room, let along talk about [laughs] a movement.  And so, the youth were 
used. 
So, when James Bevel and all the people came into Montgomery – and, by the 
way, we did meet James Bevel and, uh, Bernard Lafayette – were the other group that 
came to, uh, do the concert at Carnegie Hall, so we had already met them.  But they came 
into Montgomery first with the, uh, Freedom Riders.  And so, because we knew them, we 
had gone to, uh, Reverend Abernathy’s house and waiting to get the cue to go pick up the 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 10 of 23 
 
Freedom Riders as they came in, because at that time we still active in the Movement and 
still singing. 
And Mrs. Abernathy, uh, said, uh, “We don’t have anybody to pick them up.”  
Now, a lot of adults will tell you that they did, [laughs] but that day we stole a car.  We 
said, “Well, oh, we got to go, uh, find a way to get the, uh, Freedom Riders!”  And, uh, 
there was a girl, her name was Antonette Carson, and she had her license at the time, and 
her fath – grandfather would leave his car in the garage every day.  So, we schemed 
together and said we were going to steal his car and go pick up the Freedom Riders. 
And we did.  But we said, “How in the world are we going to get this car back in 
here?”  So, what we did was we took some chalk, school chalk, and marked where the 
tires of his car were, and took the car, picked up the Freedom Riders, went back and put 
that car right in the tracks of those marks that we had made.  And it was such an eventful 
day to see how they were beaten and how they were treated, uh, when getting off of those 
buses.  And we had a carload when we – when we left. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  Were you, um, yourself, uh, ever so close to violence that you 
really feared for your own personal safety? 
JJ:  [Sighs] It’s something about youth, that even when you have fear [20:00], and 
it’s something about having lived that kind of life, that your fear is bundled, and it’s 
there, but it does not outweigh the need to, uh, participate.  So that there were times when 
we had – we feared, we had fear.  In fact, the night that the Freedom Riders came in, uh, 
we went to the church, uh, carried them to the church, and we were there for the mass 
meeting that night.  And when we went in, there were no whites.  When we sat there a 
while, the church was completely surrounded.  As far as you could see were, um, white, 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 11 of 23 
 
uh, mostly males on horses and, uh, carrying long guns and sitting outside, waiting on us 
to come out.  And that was the night that we, in fact, spent the night at the church.  So, it 
was a fearful night, but not enough fear to stop us from doing what we needed to do. 
JM:  Did you –?  Sorry. 
JJ:  I was just going to say that, uh, Reverend, uh, Seay said that night, uh, to me.   
We were eating – some food had come in, sandwiches and that kind of thing – and he 
was sitting on the steps at the church, on the inside.  And I said, “Reverend Seay, what 
what are we going to do?”  Because as far as we could see were all these people 
surrounding us!  And he said, uh, “We’re going to do like the doodle bug.”  And I said, 
“What do you mean?”  He said, “Doodle Bug,” because he called me Doodle Bug quite a 
bit, “we’re going to do like the doodle bug.” 
And I was an adult before I really understood what he was saying, but we played 
this game in Montgomery, and we would sing the “Doodle Bug Song.”  It was [begins to 
sing], “Back-a-back, doodle, back, back.  Your house is on afire.  Your children’s 
burning.  Back-a-back, doodle, back, back.”  And I had to think about it as I became an 
adult, because I really didn’t know at the time what he was saying.  And I thought about 
how that song said, “Your house is on afire, and you’re in trouble,” but you’re going to 
be just like the doodle bug.  And the doodle bug, when we were singing that song, the 
doodle bug would baaack up, just back out of, uh, the sand, and, uh, he was so small, but 
as if to say, “I’m protecting my own.” 
JM:  Let’s pause for just – excuse me just one sec, if we could, John. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  We’re back. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 12 of 23 
 
JM:  We’re back after a short break.  Can you tell me about, um – Ms. Jones, can 
you tell me about the founding of the, um, the Freedom Singers? 
JJ:  Well, actually, the Freedom Singers, as you know them, I was not a part of 
that group.  I joined after leaving the Montgomery Trio.  But remember I went to school 
at Alabama State University, so that, uh, we kept the group – and so did, uh, the other 
two girls, and so we kept the group going during the time that we were fighting to, for 
voter registration and that kind of thing.  I may have mentioned that, uh, a lot of that was 
done by the youth, because a lot of adults no longer wanted to participate for whatever 
their reasons were.  Uh, so, when James Bevel and those people came into Montgomery, 
they called on us to sing before the meetings that we would have in the rural areas, as 
well as in the city of Montgomery.  So, we would travel around with them, and we’d do 
the singing, um, at the churches before the speaker would, of course, speak.  So, we kept 
our group, the Montgomery Trio, going up until that time. 
And, um – after which I came to Atlanta, uh, got with Bernice Reagon.  Uh, it 
started, I guess – I have to back up to say that, uh, she had asked that I participate in the, 
what they called the Penny Festival.  And that’s where the community and the school – 
there was so much separation [25:00] that they had formed this Penny Festival to come 
together with the community to put on a performance each year. 
JM:  This was here in Atlanta? 
[Increased microphone noise] 
JJ:  Yes.  And, uh, SNCC did that.  And when Bernice Reagon asked me to 
participate, we did the music for that first Penny Festival that we would, uh, we were 
doing.  And, um, after, I said, “Goodness, I haven’t been singing, and this was so good to 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 13 of 23 
 
participate in this kind of thing.”  So, myself, along with another singer that, uh, was in 
the Harambee Singers, Mattie Casey, uh, Pierce now, went to Bernice’s house and 
knocked on the door and said, “We’d like to just continue to sing.  Let’s continue to 
sing.”  And thus, uh, was started the Harambee Singers.  So, I wasn’t in that, uh, freedom 
group singers with Bernice, but in the Harambee Singers with her. 
JM:  Let me take you back.  Tell me about – I want to ask about repertoire and 
what you most liked to sing, say, in the – early in the gospel trio in Montgomery, later in 
the – when you’re in college, and then later with Harambee. 
JJ:  It depended on what was happening at the time.  Uh, that determined what we 
would sing and what message we would – because we learned at Highlander that these 
songs not only could carry a message for the Movement in Montgomery, but songs carry, 
uh, the message of the Movement wherever.  And that when we went to, uh, Highlander, 
we would sing, and, uh, our songs, uh, “This Little Light of Mine,” which became one of 
the famous songs of the Movement.  And it’s interesting to note that we were singing that 
for the Movement at eleven years old, um, and became one of the songs on the the, uh, 
album that we did.  But that was one of the important songs.  “We Are Soldiers in the 
Army” was one of the songs we did.  “Oh, Freedom.”  So, we were doing all of these 
songs at eleven years old for the Movement, songs which later became the bulk of songs 
and, uh, the basis of the songs for that upcoming Civil Rights Movement. 
JM:  [Coughs] Would you –?  [Clears throat] Excuse me.  What part did you sing? 
JJ:  I sang, uh, basically the melody. 
JM:  Um-hmm. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 14 of 23 
 
JJ:  But we did interchange, and I’d do a lot of the lead singing on the, uh, songs, 
uh, the verse singing. 
JM:  Um-hmm, um-hmm.  Tell me about, um, that work, um, I think with, um, 
about ’66, 1966 forward, the Harambee Singers.  Tell me about how that group evolved 
and, and your work there. 
JJ:  I will.  Um, I do want to say a bit more about Highlander and how our songs 
began to change as we, uh, attended those workshops with Guy Carawan and all.  If you 
go back to the songs, you’ll see that we were singing songs, but basically we didn’t write 
the songs.  There is a Montgomery song that represents that movement that was written 
by one of the professors at Alabama State, which for me for that era was the first actual 
song that was written for the movement.  And I’d like to get that in, because people think 
it happened later on, but, no, right at that time, he wrote that song. 
But when we went to Highlander, we were singing some of the songs, basically 
the freedom songs, basically as they were done traditionally.  And we are traditional 
singers, uh, and we would add a word in, and a verse or a line, to represent our 
movement, or sometimes we would change a line.  But we weren’t actually changing 
whole songs until actually we got there – to Highlander – and saw others do it.  And then, 
we thought we were equipped.  We were going back then, writing songs and doing our 
own, you know, version of the songs.  But we kept it traditional, in terms of how we 
would sing the songs.  So, if you hear our album or any of those things, you will see we 
kept, uh, the traditional ways of, uh, doing that.  I wanted to add that [30:00] because I 
wanted to give him credit for how songs changed during the Movement and that kind of 
thing. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 15 of 23 
 
JM:  [Coughs] Excuse me. 
JB:  What was the song that –? 
JM:  In particular – yeah? 
JB:  Yeah, what was that song that he wrote? 
JM:  There’s one song that your – 
JJ:  He wrote, uh, uh, “Ain’t Gonna Ride No Bus No More.”  And it’s interesting 
how he wrote that song, because sometimes now when I’m singing it or we are 
performing that song, people look and say, “Did y’all say ‘hell’?”  “Yes, that’s the way 
he wrote the song,” because he wrote it from a traditional song that, um, I think that that 
song is “Ain’t Gonna Rain No More.”  And in that song it says, “How in the hell do the 
old folk know it ain’t gonna rain no more?”  And he said, “How in the hell don’t the 
white folk know we ain’t gonna ride them buses no more?” 
JM:  [Laughs] I have read two different accounts for how, uh, you are credited 
with adding a very important verse to “We Shall Overcome.”  Can you share that story 
with us? 
[Sound levels vary while Ms. Jones is speaking] 
JJ:  You know what?  I don’t know how much light I can, uh, place on that, 
because you have to remember that I was at Highlander when I was probably fourteen 
years old.  And we weren’t thinking at the time, “Oh, I said this; I did this.”  That was not 
upon our minds.  So that I can remember that, uh, when we went to Highlander, uh, we 
had workshops to prepare us for different things that we would face. 
And one of the things that Reverend Seay, who drove us there, uh, said to us is 
that we are going to leave by night.  And the reason for that is when you get into 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 16 of 23 
 
Monteagle, Tennessee, the population of, uh, blacks is – the population is just one, and 
that was Septima Clark.  And so, to go in by night, we would not be noticed as we would 
go in.  So we went there by night, and we came back by night. 
But one of the things that happened when we were there is the policemen from the 
city came in.  Uh, we were having a movie, I believe, that night, or a song fest, and, uh, 
they came in.   They turned out all the lights – from the city they turned them out.  So, we 
were in complete darkness that night.  And, um, we could not see each other.  We didn’t 
know where – I didn’t know where my sister was.  I didn’t know where Minnie was.  We 
were just there – wherever we were at the time when the lights went out – careful – that’s 
where we sat. 
And so, all these policemen came in.  And all we could see, basically, is the billy 
club, uh, waving, and the, uh, the butts of their guns – you could see it shining on their 
holster.  Uh, and they told us to sit, you know, of course, uh, stay seated, or be quiet, or 
what have you.  And something [pause] said, [begins singing slowly] “We are not 
afraid,” and everybody started singing, [singing] “We are not –,” and you could hear 
people come in.  My sister, who is not a singer, I knew she was safe, because I heard her 
little out-of-tune voice coming in.  And I could hear Minnie’s bass come in, about, “We 
are not afraid.” 
And we got louder and louder with singing that verse, until one of the policemen 
came and he said to me, “If you have to sing,” and he was actually shaking, “do you have 
to sing so loud?”  And I could not believe it.  Here these people had all the guns, the billy 
clubs, the power, we thought [pause] and he was asking me, with a shake, if I would not 
sing so loud.  And it was that time that I really understood the power of our move—of 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 17 of 23 
 
our music, [35:00] how powerful it was that this – it unnerved him so much that he had to 
come and ask that I not sing so loud. 
And I can just tell you that I got louder and louder.  And somehow even the nature 
out there in that darkness, because everywhere was dark, but it looked like our voices 
blended that night to the point of complete harmony and beauty.  And from then on, I 
knew exactly how powerful our songs were. 
JM:  Can you remember singing in a – can you tell a story about singing in a 
particular place that really stands – in a moment and a place that really stands out in your 
memory, very vividly? 
JJ:  Now, that stands out. 
JM:  I’m sure there are lots. 
JJ:  But – there are a number of them, but I can say that we were in Montgomery.  
I was in college at the time.  And we were, uh, King was going to take us from his church 
– uh, he was no longer living there at the time, but he had come back for – I can’t even 
remember what the Movement was all about.  But we were going to march to the, uh, 
capital in Montgomery.  And as we, uh – we got to the top of the steps, and you saw all of 
these white folks.  The people had – they had taken – the males had taken off their shirts, 
and they were just bare-chested, standing up there with, uh, rifles and riding their horses.  
And, again, I saw – I faced these horses coming down on you.  And when I got to the top 
of the steps, it made me sing [laughs] that verse again, “We are not afraid,” and we 
started singing it. 
Now, I can tell you that my knees were actually shaking that day when I looked 
out to see all of them, and we were going to, you know, try to march to the—to the 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 18 of 23 
 
capital.  But singing that song and that verse helped to kind of steady those knees at that 
time.  And I can remember that particular verse at that time and that particular, uh, 
movement. 
JM:  Tell me – let’s just, um, shift for just a moment.  And I’m interested in your 
experience in college.  Can you describe your –? 
JJ:  Well, those college days were spent, as I said – SCLC had formed and sent 
James Bevel and James Orange into Montgomery.  And what we worked on at the time 
was, uh, voter registration again, even though I had handled voter registration at eleven, 
uh, twelve years old with Mrs. [Idessa] Williams in Montgomery, and, um, uh, during my 
high school days we just continued that whole thing of, uh, going to Kings Hill.  We 
ventured out into other places besides Montgomery, because Montgomery was so tight at 
that time, after having gone through that Montgomery bus boycott. 
And the other thing we were working on was, uh, sit-ins.  And so, we would go to 
the church and plan, as youth, with James Bevel and James Orange, how we were going 
to go to the five and ten cent stores.  And, um, they taught us at that time – they had gone 
through training sessions on how to protect your head and that kind of thing, and what 
happens if someone spits on you.  And, uh, really, they taught us nonviolence to a great 
extent.  And so, that’s – those were the kinds of things that we worked on. 
But let me just go back and say, at twelve years old, uh, Mrs. Rosa Parks and Mrs. 
Williams, uh, taught us how to fill out twenty-seven-page questionnaires, uh, so that we 
could go into the homes of adults and teach them how to fill out those questions, uh, to 
become voters.  That’s what you had to do at the time, just silly, stupid kinds of 
questions.  We had to learn the preamble to the Constitution.  But they set us in a little 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 19 of 23 
 
shop, uh, behind her house.  She was, uh, a hairdresser, and we would – the youth would 
go in there, sit on the floor, and we’d learn how to fill out these – at eleven – fill out 
these, uh, and answer the questions.  And, uh, we would knock on doors and [40:00] 
teach adults how to fill it out. 
JM:  Yeah, yeah.  By the mid ’60s, the Civil Rights Act has passed, the Voting 
Rights Act has passed, but there’s been tremendous violence and difficulty, and I’m 
thinking about the founding of the Harambee Singers.  And, um, how did your 
perspective at that time, say ’66 maybe, compare to your perspective earlier in the ’60s?  
Were you – what was your overall sense and feeling about the Movement at that point 
and its progress and its challenges and its difficulties? 
JJ:  Um-hmm.  Uh, personally, I started paying more attention to I guess what we 
call Black Power and the Pan-Africanist movement.  And so, the songs that we performed 
as Harambee Singers were what we would call very radical type songs, uh, “Move On 
Over Or We’ll Move On Over You,” and the songs took a different tone and became also 
international.  We were very in tune to our heritage at the time and, um, as I said, Black 
Power.  And, uh, so, when we went, our hair was Afroed and this kind of thing, and our 
songs took on some of that same mentality at the time.  So, the Harambee Singers’ songs 
– we never did the songs that, uh, were performed by the Montgomery Trio, but in fact, 
uh, Pan-Africanist type songs. 
JM:  Can you tell me a little bit more about [clears throat] – excuse me – about the 
group’s repertoire? 
JJ:  Um, in terms of the songs, um, “Hands Off Nkrumah” was one of the songs 
that we did, because at that time, as I say, we had a Pan-Africanist perspective to what we 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 20 of 23 
 
were doing in song.  And, uh, so, that was important to us as, uh, the Movement was 
going on in Ghana.  We, uh, did do that song of “Hands off Nkrumah, uh, that’s what the 
people say, ‘Hands off Nkrumah.’”  Uh, and, uh, we talked about the CIA in the song.  
So, we start attacking other elements of not only, uh, this country, but the world, in what 
was happening. 
JB:  Can we pause for a sec? 
JM:  Sure. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JJ:  I go into things, uh – there are other elements or things that come to mind. 
JM:  Sure, sure. 
JJ:  You know, but, um – unless you have some questions about the things – uh, 
want me to expand on things that have already been said, I’ll just kind of think, you know 
– don’t you –? 
JM:  We’ve done pretty well, is that what you’re saying? 
JJ:  I would think.  [Laughs] 
JM:  Yeah.  No, I think it’s been fabulous. 
JJ:  [Laughs] 
JM:  I did want to – I did want to maybe go back – 
JJ:  Um-hmm. 
JM:  And just ask about, um – the question of whether or not, uh, your mother and 
your grandmother ever had to try to pull you and your sister and brother back a little bit 
out of fear for your safety.  Did they – is that a good question – because that’s just a 
natural –? 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 21 of 23 
 
JJ:  Yeah, but I’ll start with our community and just say [clears throat] – 
JM:  Okay. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB:  We’re on. 
JM:  We’re on, okay.  We’ve had a short break and we’re going to come back and 
talk a little bit more about family and community. 
JJ:  Yes.  Um, our community were, uh, was filled with people who had 
participated in struggle in some type way.  Um, we had Flora Grant, who had one of the 
large debits in, uh, Atlanta Life Insurance Company and who kept herself close to 
movement things that’s happening in the community, who would come to my home and 
sit with my mother to talk about those things, as I sat under the table, and they played 
cards.  But, uh – and I would hear a lot at that time, because she was very knowledgeable 
as to the kind of current things happening in the Montgomery community.  So, we had 
Flora Grant.  And we had the young lady who wrote, uh, “See How They Run.”  Uh, we 
had Sullivan Rogers, who was one of the first black jockeys, and, uh, we saw him train 
his horses, and he would tell us stories.  Uh, and we had my aunt, who lived with us, and 
her name – we called her Bessie B.  [45:00] 
Now, Bessie B was the storyteller in my family, and she would tell us about all 
kinds of struggles.  And the story that I remember from her was about Old John.  And 
when she talked about Old John, she said that he, uh, worked hard from sunup to 
sundown to take care of his family, of the family, but at the end of the day or the week, 
he had no meat, he, uh, had very little food, and it would bother him so much that he had 
taken care and raised the food for his, uh, owner, uh, as he sharecropped, but, uh, he 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 22 of 23 
 
could not pay his bill at the end of the week.  And so, Old John found ways to, uh, every 
so often, get his family a chicken. 
And she told us the story of how John trained his younger son to come with him, 
as they would get one chicken out of – from the white folks’ chicken coop.  And he said, 
“John, this night I’m going to teach you how to pries.  And you’re going to pries the 
chicken coop while I go under and get this one chicken,” because there’s something 
about black families that told them that they were to get whatever it was to survive, but 
not more than that.  And so, he would get this one chicken, uh, for his family. 
So, he carried, uh – Little John, I guess, uh, was about the age of twelve, I think 
she told us – and they would get this long stick to pry up the chicken coop.  And, um, this 
particular night he was saying, “Pries, boy!  Pries, boy,” as John was shaking and almost 
to drop the chicken coop, uh, before John could get the, uh, chicken from the chicken 
coop.  And he did.  “Pries, boy!  Pries!”  And my aunt would just shake all over in her 
voice as she was telling the story about “Pries, boy!”  And, um, he dropped the chicken 
coop, could no longer hold it.  And John said, “Run, boy!  Go tell your mama you done 
drop – uh, you done lost your pries!” 
And so, later on in life, uh, from that story – I’ll never forget, uh, that John could 
not feed his family working from sunup to sundown.  Something in my head did not, you 
know, set well with the fact that he couldn’t feed his family in that story.  So, later on, I 
wrote a song that says, [begins singing] “Pries, boy!  Pries, boy!  Pries, boy, pries!  Run 
fast!  Go tell your mama John done lost his pries.” 
JM:  Mmm, that’s beautiful. 
 
 
 
Jamila Jones Interview, 4-27-11 
Page 23 of 23 
 
 
 
 
JJ:  So, the people in the community – and as I say and tell young people, the sum 
total of what you select to do in life will determine your life.  And I think it was the sum 
total of these people and their impact on our lives that kept us even today, as I sit here, 
sixty-seven years old, uh, still involved in, uh, fighting for freedom.  So, it is those kind 
of things, and I tell, uh, even seniors today – I work with seniors – that we have to keep 
ourselves close to the young people, because it’s the older people that had this impact in 
our lives that caused us to be the people that we are today. 
JM:  I really want to thank you for joining us this morning.  It’s been a real 
pleasure to be with you.  Thank you. 
[Recording ends at 49:27] 
 
END OF INTERVIEW