Claudia Cimini Interview Log 
0:00:01.8 Debbie Fant introduces herself. She interviews Claudia Cimini at Fant's home in West 
Seattle, Washington. November 14, 2013.  
0:00:25.7 Fant gets basic biographical information from Claudia. 
0:01:06.5 Claudia identifies herself as a marine engineer. She graduated from King's Point in 
1990. Claudia grew up in a waterfront community and was always interested in how things 
worked. She remembers taking things apart with a screwdriver. A logical progression--a 
proximity to water and a nascent interest in engineering.  
0:01:59.1 She sailed out of San Francisco Bay on her first ship in 1986. During that sea-year 
period, she was a King's Point cadet, one of her ships came up to Seattle. That was the first time 
she was in Seattle. She eventually moved to Seattle, but in the meantime she often came out 
here to catch ships or to work.  
0:02:35.5 Two weeks after high school graduation, she went to King's Point (Luigi the cat is 
whining in the background). King's Point is the fifth of the four federal academies (tongue in 
cheek here!). It's like applying to a regular college, but with the addition that you needed a 
Congressional nomination. Joseph Hidalgo, a representative from New York, Queens, 
nominated her.  
0:03:25.1 When Claudia was at King's Point, you only had two majors: Deck and Engine. You 
could have a double major, with both Deck and Engineering licenses. She originally started out 
as a "deckie." She learned celestial navigation in high school and had an interest in astronomy, 
so it seemed like a natural fit. She changed majors during her plebe year (freshman year). She 
changed to Engineering at that time.  
0:04:12.7 Her degree is in Marine Engineering, a concentration of Mechanical Engineering. She 
had the same core courses that someone with a mechanical engineering degree would have. In 
addition, she also had courses that were more specific to ships and going to sea. For example, 
she took machine shop and welding classes during her plebe year, basic marine engineering 
classes. She remembers an Intro to Marine Engineering 101, in the first lab class, the instructor 
set all the plebes loose in the steam plant at the academy, and they were supposed to trace the 
steam system. They were all pretty clueless at the time. It must have been entertaining for the 
instructor, but most of them finally figured it out.  
0:05:36.6 Claudia's first job out of school was on a steamship called the Admiralty Bay, it was a 
tanker. She got the job in Boston, the ship was in Martinez, CA. They went up to Valdez, picked 
up crude oil, then brought it to various ports such as Martinez, Richmond, CA, Anacortes, WA, 
Cherry Point, WA. To the various West Coast refineries. She was on that ship for a little over 
two months.  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
1
0:06:15.1 At that time she was a newly-minted Third Assistant Engineer, her first Third's job. 
License week is at the end of First Class, your senior year. One of the requirements for 
graduation is to pass your license exams, then she became a Third Assistant. License week is a 
big deal. She tells people that the license exams generally take 4-5 days, take one section in the 
morning, another in the afternoon. She thinks of it like the bar exam (for lawyers). The rules 
have changed somewhat now. Every time you advance your license, you need to take an exam. 
When you're a senior, a First Classman, your four years came down to that one week. It was 
pretty intense, more intense than any final exam week during the course of her years at the 
academy.  
0:07:37.2 Claudia said everyone had their various talismans at their tables to ensure success on 
the exam. All the tables were set up in the gym, you had a table to yourself. You had books you 
could reference during the exam: CFRs (Code of Federal Regulations). You were expected to 
know where to find information for relevant questions. People set up their pencils in a 
particular way or they might have some kind of charm on their desk. Claudia had a little stuffed 
animal from her sister's Girl Scout troop. It wasn't very big--it was a goose that sat on the table 
while she took her exam. After you finish the exam, passing is 70% in each section.  
It's traditional to run down to Wylie Hall, the Administration Building, and ring the bell in front 
of Wylie Hall. Claudia remembers the very last exam of license week. She was so tired and so 
stressed--all those years came down to that one exam. She didn't want to make any mistakes. 
She'd passed every section that far and didn't want to fail the last section. The proctor was kind 
enough to come over and pick up the exam sheet and compare it to the answer sheet. He said, 
with all these questions that you haven't answered yet, you still have a 70. So she just checked 
off the rest and turned it in. The receptionist of the engineering department and the electricity 
professor, who she'd had for most of her time at the academy, were there. They shook her 
hand and the receptionist hugged her. She handed them her books, ran down the hill, and 
"rang the heck outta that bell." It felt good. It's good for the other midshipmen to hear that 
bell, too. It was a good feeling to pass and to finish.  
0:10:51.9 Claudia holds a Chief's license, Steam & Motor, any horsepower. First Assistant gas 
turbine. Most of her time was on steamships. Once she had a year's worth of sea time, she 
submitted her paperwork and took her exam for the Second's Steam License. Then she needed 
90 days diesel time to sit for the Second Diesel License. If you had half the time, or a minimum 
of 120 days in one and 90 days in the other, you could take both steam and motor exams at the 
same time. So she took her Chief's Exams--sat for steam and motor at the same time. That was 
a little different. You needed at least six months’ time as First Assistant before you can sit for 
the Chief's exam. So she got her Chief's License, steam & motor, but she hasn't sailed on it yet. 
That was 2005. She can sail on any of the other licenses--her most recent jobs have been as 
First Assistant on motor ships.  
0:12:52.5 There aren't very many women who are marine engineers. As a matter of fact, the 
number of women who are usually on merchant ships is less than one! It's usually just Claudia. 
One of the important things she learned about going to sea is that you're a very small town on a 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
2
very small island. There's maybe 18-25 people on a typical U. S. flag merchant ship these days. 
Things like gender, where you're from, politics--they tend not to be as important. What matters 
is that people do their jobs because you are that small town!  If, for example, there is a fire on 
the ship, you have to fight that fire. 9-1-1- is a long-distance call. The only thing that matters is 
that if you are the person on the nozzle, the person behind you is backing you up. The person at 
the fire pump has made sure that it is running. Claudia has a reputation for doing her job well, 
so, generally at this point in her career, it's hardly ever an issue.  
 
0:14:26.6 There are a couple of traditional ceremonies--the first time you cross the equator, the 
first time you cross the International Date Line. October 10, 1986, was the first day in her life 
that *didn't* happen. December 16, 1986, was twice as long as usual. October 10 didn't happen 
because they were going westbound and crossed the International Dateline. There have been 
many days since then that she's skipped or repeated, but those are the two she remembers.  
She understands that the state maritime academies, on their school ships, they run the cadets 
through a gauntlet and make them wear silly costumers, do goofy things, to commemorate. 
Because King's Point doesn't have a school ship, they were out on actively working merchant 
ships. If you've only got 18-20 people working, you're not actively focusing on coming up with 
some kind of elaborate ritual for only one person.  
 
0:16:06.1 Something similar they had at King's Point was "recognition run," at the end of plebe 
year when plebes became Fourth Classmen. They actually got some privileges. The last thing 
you did as a plebe was run an obstacle course. When Claudia crossed the International 
Dateline? Equator? (she wasn’t sure which one), she was on a ship that carried passengers, so 
they actually had some rituals. Claudia and her sea partner--you know the myth of the water 
going clockwise or counterclockwise depending on what side of the equator you're on? They 
kept sneaking into their room and flushing the toilet to see if it changed direction. It was pretty 
silly. But she remembers she had a sign, she was given a sign with the proper spelling of the 
word "sail" because apparently she'd typed a letter to the academy training rep and misspelled 
the word "sail." It's important, if one is going to go to sea, if one is going to sail for a living, that 
they be able to spell the word "sail" properly. That was what they did for an equator-crossing 
ritual.  
 
0:17:48.8 Claudia has been home for a couple of months at this point. She doesn't have a 
permanent billet, so every time she wants to go to work she goes to the MEBA (Marine 
Engineer’s Beneficial Association) union hall. In Seattle, job call is at 12:30 PM. That means that 
the jobs are posted on the board, Monday through Friday, by about 11:45 AM. It will give the 
name of the ship, the type of plant (steam, motor). The duration of the job, the position (first, 
second, third, chief). The run for an Articles, coast-wise. If there are any special requirements, 
experience on that class of ship--crisis management, crowd control, Chinese visa--that type of 
thing. The job closes at 12:30 PM. By 12:29 PM she gives the dispatcher her shipping card, 
which has her name, her level of seniority, and the date that she last got off a ship. The 
dispatcher sorts the cards, they're color-coded by level of seniority, and she puts the oldest 
card on top in each level of seniority. At 12:31 PM, the dispatcher will call the first name--the 
person who's been out of work the longest with the highest level of seniority. She'll call that 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
3
person's name. That person will either choose one of the jobs on the board or say "Pass." She'll 
go through all the Group Ones, Group Two, etc.  
 
0:19:45.2 Just because someone is ahead of Claudia on the list doesn't mean they'll take the 
job. They may not have the special requirements, or they may have changed their mind 
between 11:45 and 12:31. So anytime she sees a job on the board that she's interested in, she'll 
throw her card in. Because once the job call is taking place, she can't throw in her card. She can 
say "Pass," or she can take the job. But if she doesn't have her card to the dispatcher at 12:29 
PM, she has to wait until they go through all the levels. Then, if it's not filled, she has a shot at 
it. That would also be the case if she walked in at 12:31 PM. She'd have to wait until job call was 
over.  
 
0:20:35.3 Lately, Claudia has been sailing as a First Assistant Engineer. Generally, she's been 
given a heads-up when jobs are going to come up, and she'll go to the hall where that job is 
likely to be called. She's at a point now that she has a Chief's license--she can take any of the 
engineering officer's jobs. She has all the additional requirements for any job that she might 
want. But because she has seniority, she can be a little picky. She might decide that she wants 
to get more First time with a particular company. Or she might want to get more time on a 
B&W engine, or another kind of engine. So she's hoping to go to work in January (2014), but 
we'll see what actually happens.  
 
She can choose to be unemployed--she has ultimate control over that. She doesn't have as 
much control over when she IS employed. It's happened that when she thought she was going 
to go to work, and there didn't seem to be anybody else in the hall who was ahead of her on 
the list or had the requirements for the job or seemed to want the job, then at 12:29, 
somebody comes in who's ahead of her. It happens.  
 
0:22:06.1 She feels that the way job call is done, that helped her get a fair chance because what 
is being hired is a position, not a specific person. When she was still at the academy, she 
remembers interviewing with a shipping company. The interviewer asked her, did she know 
that she would probably be the only woman on the ship, as if that hadn't occurred to Claudia. 
As if that hadn't happened already!  
 
0:22:54.3 She wasn't offered that job, and presumably the job was offered to someone more 
qualified than she was, but she'll never know. It's also possible that the job wasn't offered to 
her because of her gender, but she has no way of knowing. But because she's gotten her jobs 
out of the hiring hall, she has the qualifications and she gets the job. Then she does the job, and 
the permanent people on the ship or with the company discover that she's pretty good at it. So 
they give her information to let her know when jobs are coming up. She definitely thinks that 
helped her get a foot in the door.  
 
0:23:49.6 Claudia cut her teeth on steam ships. She hasn't worked on one in a long time now. 
She likes both motor and steam, but she works mostly on motor ships lately. The last of the U.S. 
flag merchant steamboats was built around 1980 or 1983. Motor ships are still being built all 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
4
the time. It's a different way of looking at the picture--a different kind of thinking. Whereas a 
steam ship is one complex system, motor ships are more like packaged systems. For example, 
on a steam ship, the boilers produce steam, which turns the main turbine, which is connected 
to the propeller which turns the shaft and moves the ship through the water.  
 
0:24:59.6 The steam usually also turns the turbines in the ship's turbo generators, which 
produces electricity. In the motor ship, you'll have the big propulsion engine that's connected 
to the propeller, and you'll also have generator engines. On a steamship, if you lose your fires 
and your boiler, you'll also lose your ability to generate electricity. On a motor ship, if you lose 
your propulsion engine, you have not necessarily lost your ability to produce electricity. That's 
the main difference between steam and motor.  
 
0:25:46.2 Claudia remembers once she considered going to medical school, and she met with 
the interviewer for the school. He asked her what she was doing that was at all related to 
medicine. She explained that she was standing watch on steamships as a marine engineer, and 
that a steam plant is a complex system, like the human body, and you may have a symptom one 
place (like in the vacuum) but that doesn't mean that the cause is in the condenser. It could 
actually be several steps removed. So you've got to think in that way. You've got to think 
holistically. He liked that answer because it had never occurred to him--how could it be similar?  
 
 
0:27:09.4 Claudia likes solving the puzzle. She likes figuring out, "How does this thing work?" Or 
"Why did this thing go wrong?" She likes trying to distill things to their core, to the simplest 
element. She thinks the most important thing she's learned going to sea is that enemies are a 
luxury. Once again, if you're in a small town, there's only 18-25 people, you can't afford to be 
enemies with any of those people. She's also learned, in terms of leadership, screamers will 
ultimately fail because they create an environment where people are afraid of them and don't 
want to tell them things--especially bad news. Eventually you're gonna need to hear that bad 
news. She always tries, when she's in a leadership role, to create an environment where people 
are not afraid to tell her bad news. She'll tell people, "If you ask me the same question the fifth 
time, I can't promise I won't be annoyed. I'll do my best not to be annoyed, because I have been 
that person who's asked that question the fifth time.” But also, having been the person asking 
that question for the fifth time, she’d also say she’d rather be asking that question when the 
lights are still on than have the whole plant black and have to explain why I didn't ask that 
question the fifth time. That can be a really hard thing to do. You know the other person is 
going to be annoyed at you, and you've got to swallow your pride and admit "I'm really sorry, I 
know I've asked this question before." My goal is to be the person who's patient, very patient 
when that question is asked the fifth time. A good friend of hers, she's sailed with him and he's 
been Chief.  When you give him bad news, he says, "I'm glad you told me that." That's Claudia's 
goal, to be able to say that every time, "I'm glad you told me that." Because you need that 
information. 
 
 0:30:21.8 She and her late husband came up with a name for her work outfit: They called it the 
"marine engineering burka." Claudia wears a one-piece boiler suit that's cotton, because cotton 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
5
doesn't melt into your skin. It's usually blue. Under that she has shorts and a T shirt, thermies 
(thermal underwear) if it's cold weather, which isn't often. 120 degrees in the engine room is 
not unusual. Typical air temperature in Honolulu in the engine room is 100 degrees. Long 
sleeves, long pants. Steel-toed work boots. Her hair, which is fairly long, down to her waist, is in 
a braid, tied in a knot. And she wears a bandanna over that. She wears her glasses when she's in 
the engine room. She wears lightweight cotton gloves for everyday use. If she's going to be 
handling anything that she knows is hot, she wears another pair of gloves over the cotton ones. 
If she knows she's going to be welding, she usually wears earmuffs, which she prefers to ear 
plugs. She's pretty well covered. There are people she works with who don't know what color 
her hair is, haven't actually seen her hair. That occurred once. She was getting off a ship, had 
been First on it. She was walking down the gangway, and she heard two of the ABs (able-bodied 
seaman), one said, "Hey, Jimmy!  Who dat?" Jimmy says, "Oh, remember that little First 
Engineer running around here last trip?" “Yeah, yeah, who was that?”  Jimmy says, "That's her, 
walking down the gangway." Those were people she lived and worked with for 35 days. 
Because she wasn't wearing her "marine engineering burka," one of them didn't recognize her.  
 
0:33:19.9 Lately Claudia has been on the West Coast to Hawaii run--Oakland, Los Angeles, 
Honolulu is a typical triangle, a two-week trip. Going to the Far East from the West Coast is 
usually 35-42 days. That's on a container ship. Tramp ships, they're all sorts of variations. Lately, 
each voyage has been two weeks, 35 days, or 42 days. Her shortest shipping job was 10 days, 
her longest was 115 days.  
 
0:34:15.8 A tramp ship is a ship where your run may be changed during the course of the trip. 
An example was the one she was in in 1986 as a cadet. They carried containers, bagged grain, a 
couple of hydrofoils built by Boeing. That was “break-bulk” cargo, a variety of cargo. Container 
ships these days only carry containers, those trailers you see being hauled by semis, or you 
might recognize them as train cars. Containerized cargo is all part of the "just-in-time" delivery 
model. Container ships run very tight schedules, whereas tramp ships are not on very definite 
schedules and always subject to change. She was also on a tanker that was a tramper. They'd 
get a load of cargo in Valdez and find out en route where they were going.  
 
0:36:00.1 Claudia has a stateroom onboard ship. There will be a bed, a desk, easy chair, 
television, DVD player--those are typical. An attached bathroom. The First Assistant usually has 
an office as well. The Chief has an office. Usually she takes a couple of pictures with her and 
puts them on the desk. If there isn't a good incandescent reading light, she'll get one. If there 
isn't a coffee pot, she'll get one. When she's on the Hawaii run, usually she'll go ashore and get 
some flowers and put them in the room while she's there.  
 
0:37:26.2 Sometimes people decorate the outside or inside of their doors. People who are 
permanent to a particular ship will often have plants, will make more lasting changes to their 
rooms. But if you're a relief or rotary like Claudia, you generally won't do things like that unless 
to repair things.  
 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
6
0:38:19.0 There is cranky old chief she sailed with many years ago who said, “Three things 
break every day. So you have to fix at least three things each day just to keep up.” And there's 
something to that. The other thing he'd say was "Fix it in your spare time." It took her awhile, 
but she finally figured out what he really meant by that. If you're not fighting fires, dealing with 
a crisis, it IS spare time. They tend not to think of it that way, you tend to think of spare time as 
"leisure" time. But if you're not fighting a fire, it IS spare time. She likes doing projects where 
they're improving the ship, where they're making the ship more ergonomic. She likes building 
things. She had the good fortune a few years ago to be on a ship that was newly put in service, 
and so they were setting up how things were going to be stored, how the work spaces were 
going to be set up. That was very satisfying. You either set the ship up right from the beginning, 
or it's always dysfunctional. But as for fixing things? Some things have been harder to figure out 
than others.  
 
0:40:05.6 On a recent ship, for the two trips before her trip, every time the ship came into 
Honolulu they would do the stern test, and they couldn't start the main engine from the bridge 
and they couldn't start it from the control room, and they'd end up bringing the ship in engine 
side. That means that somebody was down there, right on top of the engine, controlling the 
governor by hand and the lever to control the speed of the ship, to start and stop the ship and 
control the RPM at which the propeller was turning. The first two guys, they tried to figure out 
what it was, and it seemed to be fixed. Then the next one, they thought they figured out what it 
was, seemed to be fixed. Then it was Claudia's turn. Same thing happened, they're running 
engine side. They tried to figure out what it was. Found one thing--it was a sensor that was 
twelve millimeters away instead of ten. Maybe that was it, fixed it but weren't sure if that 
solved the problem. They did find a switch that wasn't properly attached. It wasn't obvious that 
it wasn't connected. But they discovered that and changed it out. That might have been the 
problem. But the hardest things to fix are the things that don't fail every time. The things that 
fail intermittently. You have to figure out what caused it. That was something that failed ever 
time the ship came into Honolulu. What caused it?  The frequency of bells? The frequency of 
maneuvering changes? Because the weather was hotter?  
 
0:42:25.5 When she was on the Alaska Ferry, they had a generator that would spontaneously 
go from full voltage to 380 volts, 450 down to 380. It was unpredictable, couldn't figure out 
where or why. The seaman's rep was pulling out his hair. Months and months, couldn't figure 
out what was wrong. Finally, one of the other engineers, whenever he had a spare ten minutes 
or half hour between jobs, he started very methodically chasing the voltage control circuit. He 
eventually found, with a volt meter, he was troubleshooting it. He was going through each of 
the elements, checking voltage, resistance, current. What he eventually found was one resistor 
that was not fully soldered. Occasionally the resistor would vibrate out of the circuit, then 
vibrate back in to the circuit. That took months to find. Those are some of the challenging 
things. But it's always satisfying once you finally solve something, figure out what it was. But 
until then, you end up expending a lot of hours. You're just trying to find out what the heck is 
wrong. You replace parts, you're as methodical as you can be. But you haven't solved it until 
you do. And once you do, you realize, "Oh, okay!" Hindsight is 20/20. The real trick would be if 
you could see the answer in the beginning! 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
7
 
0:44:53.8 It’s been a long time since she's had to work a 24-hour day. Actually being up and 
working for 24 hours. That usually involves crises, and fortunately, they don't do that anymore.  
 
0:45:20.8 A typical day, on her last job--she's an early riser. She was sailing as a First, so she was 
planning the work lists for the day. She was up at 5:30 AM, got coffee, checked email. The chief 
might have sent her an email during the night, there might have been an email from the 
company telling her to change something or test something. Or there could have been an email 
from the engineer who had duty during the night saying, "I think we have a problem with the 
Number Three generator." That's the first thing she does--check email just in case something 
has happened that might change the work plan for the day. Then she goes over her work list, 
which she's planned the night before. Any kind of maintenance or repair work, changing the 
injectors on the Number Two generator engine, doing firing pressures on the main engine. 
Figuring out why the Number Three generator won't hold the voltage.  
 
One of those things--the ones that are Easter Egg hunts are not always at the top of the list 
unless someone has a new idea. Those are jobs you pick at. The “wiper,” for example, does 
janitorial type duties. So the wiper might spend the day cleaning the engine room. The “junior,” 
another unlicensed position, equivalent of unlisted, the junior might be changing strainers or 
filters or cleaning them. The electrician, an unlicensed position that generally works somewhat 
independently, will have a separate work list that Claudia will add to. She'll often get together 
with the electrician and ask them to check something, or he might have heard that he needs to 
check something. There might be a refrigeration electrician who's responsible for the 
refrigerated cargo and for the ship's refrigeration plants, both the air conditioning and the food 
refrigeration. There are the licensed engineers, the Second Assistant, Third Assistant, the Chief, 
as well as Claudia as First Assistant. She doesn't usually give jobs to the Chief, since he's her 
boss. They might have cadets. They might be from King's Point or one of the state maritime 
academies. In the hierarchy, they're equivalent to warrant officers. So the Third Assistant 
Engineer might be responsible for the Lubow purifier. If it's due for maintenance and repair 
work, she might assign it to the Third.  
 
She'll have the cadets work with various people or independently. It's a learning opportunity for 
the cadet. As much as she can, she'll have the Second and Third working on something that 
they're not as familiar with. When she can, she tries to assign maintenance or repair jobs to 
people who may not have worked on that particular machinery before but who she knows have 
good skills and can learn about it and become proficient. Because that's what she did at some 
point in her career. It's always teaching, it's always learning. That's before she's even had 
breakfast--she'll go over all that, the work list. The workday starts at 8:00 AM. A little before 8 
they meet in the control room in the motor ship. Claudia will assign the jobs for the day. That's 
also when the Second Engineer, who might be responsible for chemistry, might notice that he 
needs to check the cooling water for one of the generators. So she'll say, “Check that first,” and 
maybe they'll have a discussion of the results. If she has suggestions, she'll offer them. They 
might tell her they need to order more of XX chemical because they're running low, and she'll 
put that on the list.  
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
8
 
A couple of minutes after 8 AM, everyone begins their jobs for the day. From noon to 1 PM, 
they'll break for lunch. From 1:00 PM to 5:00 PM, they work. There might be additional work or 
maintenance in the evening. Even if she's not actively working in the evening on a particular 
job, she'll cruise through the engine room because someone else is working. Partly to check on 
them to see if they're working, but also to see if the jobs that were done during the day were 
completed. That helps her plan for the next day.  
 
0:52:02.9 Maneuvering into or out of port can occur any hour, not necessarily between 8 and 5. 
For the engineers for motor ships, they're on "manned engine room." What that means is that 
the engineering officers take turns being the duty engineer or the engineer on call. Before going 
out for dinner, the alarm panel is set in the engine room so that it will go off in the duty 
engineer's room first. So, if there's low fuel pressure on a generator, it will alarm first in an 
engineer's room. If, after 5-10 minutes, no one responds, then it becomes an "all-call," and the 
alarm goes off in all the engineers' rooms.  
 
0:53:01.3 Certain types of alarms, like low cooling water pressure in the main engine, could be a 
main engine slowdown or shutdown. Those sorts of alarms are immediately all-calls. Because 
"Auto," the automation, assumes it's serious and all the engineers need to be there. Sometimes 
there isn't actually a problem, it's just a failed sensor. But that doesn't matter. Auto assumes 
that if the duty engineer has not responded in time, it becomes an all-call. All of the other 
engineers needs to be called.  
 
0:54:06.6 "OTTO" is the name they've given to the automated system. If you use that 
expression, people know what you're talking about or figure it out pretty quickly. Because of 
the high noise environment, they use a lot of sign language--hand signals. A lot of it is context. 
You can usually figure out what somebody means. (Claudia gives example of a sentence of 
three words:  Taps four of her fingers on her shoulder--that means 4 bars, that means the 
Captain. Holds hand to ear as in "telephone." Then she points to the interviewer (Fant).  That 
means the Captain wants you to call, or the captain called you. But you should call the Captain 
for whatever reason.)  
 
0:55:48.9 In her leisure time, she knits. She knits a bit in the evening, it's very calming and 
meditative. She tends to do a lot of homework. She's usually going through tech manuals, 
whether sailing First or not, she's usually going through a manual in anticipation of a job, 
something she might be working on in the near future.  Or just for her personal knowledge and 
education. You can learn a lot from books. 
 
0:56:49.1 Everybody gets seasick. There's a particular set of circumstances that will make you 
sick. I'm sure Jacques Cousteau probably got seasick once or twice. What Claudia has found is it 
relates directly to stress of some kind. That could be, you haven't slept properly because the 
weather has been rough. You are anxious about something--maybe about getting seasick!! But 
as anyone will tell you, once you actually throw up, that's the worst thing that can happen. 
Most people, after they're actually sick, they're pretty much over it. Claudia has thrown up only 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
9
once, her first ship as a cadet. She was anxious and worried about getting seasick! But what 
occasionally will happen is she'll feel out of sorts, her stomach might be feeling well, and she'll 
realize that she's seasick. She found that with kids out sailing, Dramamine works. Some people 
swear by the patch or the wristband, or ginger. Usually fresh air helps. Being in a confined space 
with anything that smells unpleasant can make most anyone seasick.  
 
0:59:13.1 What Claudia likes best about going to sea is the travel, seeing the world through the 
back door. It’s interesting and fun. The being away is fun, but it's also the tough thing too. 
Everything has a cost. It's a trade-off. There are couples who marry and sleep in the same bed 
every night but don't actually see each other because they have long jobs and commutes--only 
see each other on weekends. So going to sea, you miss holidays and birthdays and all sorts of 
things. But on the other hand, you get blocks of time where you can volunteer at your kid's 
school or coach soccer, where if you had a 9 AM to 5 PM job, you couldn't do that. You can 
travel and take two weeks to visit family overseas, which you might not be able to do if you're a 
9 to 5-er. But in terms of the amount of work:  Once she told her sister she only had 35 days off 
that year. And her sister replied, "Well, most people only get two weeks." And Claudia said, 
"No, no, you don't understand. A year has how many days of weekends--Saturdays and 
Sundays? That's more than three months. When I say 35 days, I mean 35 days TOTAL." Those 
were 35 days that she wasn't either actively working or actively looking for work.  
 
You can't plan anything when you could be shipping out that day. But you could still end up 
sticking around for several months, ready to ship out. She once calculated that in 4-1/2 or 5 
months, she worked as many hours as someone who works 40-hour weeks did in a year. “So I 
still work as many hours, I just do it in these little concentrated chunks. Most days are longer 
than 8 hours.” And she works 7-day weeks.  
 
1:02:39.8 The best sea stories are the ones you can't tell. But a friend of hers who's an attorney 
says there's a statute of limitations. After that, you can tell the story. (laughs)  
 
1:03:07.5 Claudia was on a steamship, and she was working First. She'd heard they'd gotten 
two new Kings Point cadets, and King’s Point is the more military of the academies. So what 
you're supposed to do as an engine cadet, you're supposed to find the Chief and the First and 
introduce yourself as soon as you get onboard ship. And Claudia hadn't seen the kid yet. She 
found the two Kings Point cadets in their room, she was standing in the doorway in the middle 
of the day, wearing a radio. The two kids were unpacking and putting their stuff away. Claudia 
said casually, "You guys the cadets?" "Oh, yeah. We're the cadets. We're from King’s Point." 
They're not looking at her, continuing to unpack. She's trying to give them an out, she's figuring 
they just don't know. "IS this your first sea-er?" "Yeah, it's our first sea-er." They continued 
unpacking. Claudia said, "One of you guys an engine cadet?" Oh yeah, Bob's the engine cadet. 
"So, you know that as soon as you get to the ship you're supposed to introduce yourself to the 
First, to the Mate. . ." "Oh, yeah. Do you know where the First is? Know where I can find him?" 
She very theatrically looked over her shoulder, and looked back at the two cadets and said, 
"Yes, I've seen the First. SHE’S standing in your doorway." They dropped what they were doing, 
stood at attention!  Ma'am, yes ma'am!  They were on the ship for 30 minutes and they were in 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
10
trouble. She told them she got it, it was their first sea-er, they weren’t in trouble. "Bob, change 
into your engine clothes, come down to the engine room. Then you can unpack." They turned 
out to be good cadets. That's a good story. A safe story.  
 
Claudia is a member of the Marine Engineer's Beneficial Association, MEBA. She likes her 
profession. It's been good to her. It's got a cost. You've got to figure out if it's right for you. But 
the most important piece of advice is Listen. Ask Questions. And sometimes when it's really, 
really hard, you've just got to stop talking. You want to share your ideas, but you've got to listen 
to other peoples' ideas. It can be a challenge to find that balance, but it's doable. You can learn 
from everyone.  
 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Washington State Workers 
afc2012/032
11