BEALL, CECILLIA 
Interviewed by Christopher Sims 
December 20, 2017 
 
SIMS: 
00:00 
So the first questions are just gonna be to set the levels. So 
they're kind of pretend questions. They're pretend questions 
you can maybe tell me where do you work now? The real 
estate? 
BEALL: 
00:25 
I work for ERA Server Real Estate. 
SIMS: 
00:28 
How long have you been doing that? 
BEALL: 
00:29 
About 14 years now. 
SIMS: 
00:30 
And did you do that while you were doing role play as well? 
BEALL: 
00:35 
Yes, I actually did.  
SIMS: 
00:37 
That sounds amazing. You can have fun out there, right? 
BEALL: 
00:43 
It was difficult doing that and that is one of the reasons why I'm 
now doing real estate full time. 
SIMS: 
00:49 
Right. So let's start with the Mobius Company you were talking 
about. Can you explain what their role was as part of the larger 
role play? 
BEALL: 
01:04 
Sure. Mobius Industries was a subcontractor under Cubic which 
was providing all foreign nationals for the rotation. At the time I 
started with Mobius industries is when they just started here 
and working under Cubic to provide not only Afghans but from 
Iraq as well. So we had two different foreign national groups 
here doing rotations out at Fort Polk. 
SIMS: 
01:35 
And what was the time frame of when you started and how 
long were you at that position? 
BEALL: 
01:42 
It started about nine years ago. My position was just the 
receptionist at the beginning and then I moved from 
receptionist into actually handling all of the coordination of 
getting the Afghans or the people from Iraq here. Now, a lot of 
them weren't living in Iraq or living in Afghanistan, they were 
here in the US. They were either here on visa or they have 
actually become American citizens but their ethnicity is what we 
needed and their backgrounds. We, at that time, contacted 
each and every single one of them to see if they were available 
for these particular rotations. And rotations last anywhere from 
two weeks to two and a half weeks. Now these guys that we 
provide for rotation are housed out there on post, out in the 
barracks. So they stay in the barracks and they are needed, 
sometimes at night, depending on what's going on with the 
rotations, during the day. It depends on what the scenarios are. 
They could be pulled out for meetings. There was just a lot that 
was going on that was needed from them. 
BEALL: 
03:06 
And with their ethnicity, what they actually did in Iraq or what 
their job was, played a big role on what they did out there in the 
box. 
SIMS: 
03:23 
So you said you would contact them each individually but how 
did you have that list already? How did your company find 
them? 
BEALL: 
03:31 
We had to actually do a recruiting. We first did, like your 
recruiting, you put out posts like you're recruiting for a job. And 
it was. We were recruiting for a job, putting out posts like you 
would on the internet or we would actually, I've went to several 
in Houston or we went to Oklahoma one time and we actually 
had a recruiting day that we had them come in and actually take 
their names and their information and what their background 
was to see if they would qualify to come in.  
BEALL: 
04:13 
Once we did get the list of the names then we were able to 
actually filter through and see who we needed. If it was elder, 
then we would of course choose the elder. We more or less 
used as many as we could. So the ones that actually came in for 
the interviews were all selected, more or less, but at different 
times. So we would bus them here or they had the option, 
depending on where they lived, to drive for the rotation. And 
knowing that they were going to be here for two weeks.  
SIMS: 
04:51 
Right. So how important was their English language skills? It 
sounds like you would want whatever native language because 
that was key to the role. 
BEALL: 
05:02 
True. 
SIMS: 
05:02 
But how much, if they were recently arrived, maybe didn't have 
much English, could they still work for you all or did they need a 
certain level in order to communicate with you? 
BEALL: 
05:12 
Well we had interpreters. Sometimes we actually hired people 
that couldn't speak English. But that's real world. So we would 
have interpreters that would interpret what they're saying. So 
some of the scenarios out there in the box were the American 
troops would meet with the elders of the village and they would 
have to have an interpreter to be able to understand what 
they're saying. So I mean, some of them were actually, no, they 
didn't speak English. 
SIMS: 
05:45 
And for the Afghan orientations where there's different 
languages even, would you specifically catalog people by dialect 
or language and then pull them that way? 
BEALL: 
05:58 
Not necessarily. You know, it'd just depend. If it was Dari or the 
different languages like that. I mean, if you're an American 
troop, you're going in these different territories. Well this 
territory might speak one Dari or whatever and then this other 
may speak another language, another part of that. Just like here 
in the United States. I mean you go one place, you can go down 
south and you can't even understand those down south. That's 
just the way it was. But that was training for the troops because 
that's real world. 
SIMS: 
06:36 
And so people I've talked to about role play who are not familiar 
with it are always fascinated how these folks, what they think of 
the job. You know, like the foreign nationals or people who 
have recently immigrated here. Did you have any discussions 
with them to get their impressions what it was like to be in a 
new country but then oddly take a job that you're pretending 
you're back in your own country? That's not something you can 
imagine until you do it. How did people think about that? 
BEALL: 
07:20 
We actually, after rotation, I always had an after action review 
on what they thought about the rotation and the training. Some 
of the stories that we heard and that I heard personally from 
some of these guys, were very sad. You know, they went 
through a lot. They had their families tortured in front of them. 
They had to flee in the middle of the night. It's just some heart 
breaking stories for their families to even flee from what was 
going on over there. I couldn't even imagine. And then their 
custom of living and the way that they live, it's kind of hard to 
imagine because we're spoiled. And over there, it's just, it's not 
like here. Women especially. And that was another big role 
there, women. And the elder. But we did have an after action 
review always and they did give feedback on what they thought 
the rotation, how the rotation could go better or where they 
thought the positives were and the negatives were. And so we 
were able to gain to do a better job for the military because 
they need that. They need that before they go into ... 
SIMS: 
09:03 
Do you remember any of the positive or negative specifics that 
they would suggest that maybe you would incorporate later? 
BEALL: 
09:09 
A lot of it had to do with the scenarios and there were a lot of 
different scenarios. I mean sometimes it was meetings. There 
were a lot of meetings. There was a whole section that did 
nothing but meetings. 
SIMS: 
09:24 
Like meeting with the mayor? 
BEALL: 
09:24 
Yes. Yes. And there was a lot of that and of course, that's the 
military going in and discussing why they're there. You know? 
Discussing we know we're in your country, you know, what can 
we do to help you? Because the military is there to help them. 
Not always were they accepted. They kind of made it hard on 
the military going in because they are foreigners going into their 
country and a lot of them didn't like it. So a lot of them were 
arms open, "Please, we need your help."  
BEALL: 
10:18 
Some of the positive, I think, was that the, if I can recall, that 
they said that the military is always willing to help and after 
they finally got around, of course a lot of this scenario, after 
they finally got past the hurdles with the village elder, because 
the elder is always the rule, okay? And the elders, they got past 
those hurdles, they were always there to help them in any way. 
They knew that the military were there to help them, not to 
hurt them in any way. 
BEALL: 
10:56 
So I think a lot of the positive was them getting past those 
hurdles so that they were there knowing that was a good thing. 
Now the negative would be maybe you have a troop that comes 
in that's not quite educated enough to know what you do in a ... 
Like if women are around. You know? I mean that's just 
something that you don't look at a woman. You know? Over 
there. I mean, you can't make eye contact. A woman's really not 
supposed to be visible. She don't have a say, she's in the house. 
It's just men that meet. But there's been times that scenarios 
happen that maybe the US military does a boo boo and tries to 
talk to a woman. You know? but that's a good learning tool. So 
the US military does, that's why this whole training is so 
important here at Fort Polk for them. Because it's saving their 
lives while they're in another country.  
SIMS: 
12:09 
Would you say for the US military, for the soldiers coming 
through, was it the kind of cultural norms being around 
women? Was that the most obvious areas where people maybe 
made mistakes? Or are there other cultural things that 
Americans didn't know yet that they learned? 
BEALL: 
12:35 
Oh there's a lot. There's a lot. And I don't say the women thing 
was the number one. Because they are drilled about the foreign 
country before they even go into the foreign country. But a lot 
of these soldiers are young. They're 18, 19, 20, 21. You know? I 
mean they're young. And it's a lot of information. When you're 
scared and your adrenaline's going. This is role play. Fort Polk is 
role play. So they're, in the back of their minds, are going I'm 
not too worried. But there has been ... I mean we have talked to 
soldiers who have gone over there and come back and said, "If 
it wasn't for Fort Polk we could have probably gotten into a lot 
of trouble." You know? And if it wasn't for the training that we 
got out there ...  
BEALL: 
13:25 
Because as a role player, me personally as a role player, we're 
told to make it difficult. Keep in your role, do as you're 
supposed to do and real world as if you are an Afghan woman. 
What is your role as an Afghan woman? Maybe we walk out 
because they always walk in groups and try to take a look and 
see if we make them look. And if they do, you know ... Or we 
have a fruit stand and we're at a fruit stand and if they stop by, I 
mean, those are good tools for that. So the women thing, I don't 
necessarily think is the number one. I think that what they do is 
sometimes they invade on the village or they invade on a 
territory without the people knowing that they're coming in and 
they are just scared to death, you know? You're looking at real 
world scared to death. You've got foreigners walking in with 
guns, you know? So they don't know what's going on, especially 
in the rural areas. Which, there's a lot of rural areas over there. 
BEALL: 
14:47 
So that's, I think, some of the things that could get a little 
heated. You know? Even though they've probably met with the 
elders or whatever the case may be, did the message trickle 
down to get to the people that really needed to know? So I 
think that's some of the things too.  
SIMS: 
15:15 
So just a couple questions about acting. So I'm guessing, I could 
be wrong, please let me know if that's the case. Maybe if you're 
local from around here and you're American and you're used to 
watching a lot of TV and movies here, acting is, even if it's not 
something you've been trained in, it's something you can do 
pretty quickly or figure out how to do. Was that the same for 
the cultural role players? They're not professional actors. Did 
they, was that an easy transition for them to play those roles? 
BEALL: 
16:00 
Well they're given a role. Just like we are. They have a ... Prior to 
the rotation, they are set in and they are given a scenario about 
the whole rotation. What is this rotation about? What is the 
training for this time? You know? What is the goal that we're 
trying to gain for the military this time? Each one is issued a role 
of what their role is and they have to stay in role and they have 
to know what their role is. A lot of it, like I said, when we hired 
them on, whatever their job was, whether it was medical or 
whether it was a gardener or whether it was the village elder, 
whatever their work was, we tried to fit them into that so they 
could best do their scenario and fit. It does take a lot of 
coaching, you know? But then when they know what's going on, 
they do get good at it.  
BEALL: 
17:21 
Now a lot of these people that actually did come on board too 
has lived in the US for a while. They're accustomed to the US or 
they've been working on a green card through here or visa. 
Which we had to make sure all that was good. But anyhow, 
that's what we basically did. So it made it easier for them. And 
us, what we would do as role players, we'd have the same thing. 
Orientation is what it's called, go in and we would be assigned a 
role and assigned a village. We'd know when we started, what 
was going on. We would know ahead of time when they were 
supposed to be coming into the village so that that way we 
could be prepared for what we were planning on doing. 
Because it could take a flip. You know? You never know what's 
gonna happen. And you got to react. You've got to be 
spontaneous, you've got to be able to react and stay in your 
role.  
SIMS: 
18:28 
Could you talk a little bit about the other jobs that people have 
or the backgrounds of folks when they're not doing role play? 
So both locals from around here but also the cultural role 
players. Like if you're being bused every month or every other 
month for two and a half weeks, what are they doing the rest of 
the time? 
BEALL: 
18:53 
They go home. 
SIMS: 
18:54 
But do they typically have other jobs? 
BEALL: 
18:58 
A lot of them did. You know? And they would take off time for 
the rotation. Some- 
PART 1 OF 3 ENDS [00:19:04] 
BEALL: 
19:00 
... you know, and I mean they would take off time for the 
rotations. I mean they're pretty dedicated. 
SIMS: 
19:11 
So I guess not all of them would come for every rotation, right? 
BEALL: 
19:16 
Right. It depends on ... It depended on what the rotation was 
about and how many were needed. If it was a full-fledged ... We 
had ... Gosh, we had troops coming in from other areas. We had 
more than one here, depending on what was going on. If there's 
a lot of activity in all the villages, then of course we need all the 
villages manned. But if there's not, then we didn't man all 
villages. We only had to man so many villages and then they 
covered, you know, that, so not always.  
BEALL: 
19:54 
We had ... When I was working for Mobius Industries, I was the 
HR manager there. Well, I knew exactly how many role players 
were to come in and ... Making sure they were in and making 
sure the background checks were done and making sure we had 
everything all wound up. They would actually meet at our 
Mobius office and then they would be taken out to where they 
would be staying at the barracks until the rotation started, so 
yes.  
SIMS: 
20:28 
Could you give me a sense of like over the years ... Like what 
was the busiest year when you had the like most rotations in 
one ... Or when did it sort of like- 
BEALL: 
20:39 
I want to say ... Oh, gosh, when I started with Mobius we had 
two groups going. We had the Afghanistan and ones from Iraq 
in two different ... And you know that was ... At that time 
period, not a lot of them got along.  
SIMS: 
21:00 
With each other you mean? 
BEALL: 
21:02 
Yes. Because that was like war between the two, you know, at 
that time period. However, it was very interesting. Everything 
went well for rotations and bringing them in. There was two ... 
Like I say, the two different groups. We ... Mobius actually ... I 
want to say we didn't only have rotations here at Fort Polk, we 
sent them to other bases and used them, and there would be 
probably anywhere from 20 guys that we would send to other 
bases for rotations and use them for that too.  
BEALL: 
21:42 
We had maybe South Carolina ... Oh, gosh, we had them all 
over. So we'd have like maybe four different groups going 
different places, plus one here at Fort Polk. So I want to say 
when we first started it was probably the busiest ever. Yeah. 
SIMS: 
21:59 
Was everything you did also through Cubic, or did Mobius have 
... These other ones are not necessarily through Cubic? 
BEALL: 
22:05 
Well, yes. Cubic was the ... We were under Cubic. Yes, we were 
under Cubic. However, Mobius was the one that pulled the guys 
in, okay, we're the ones that had all the HR ... We did all the HR 
on the guys, the background checks. We did it all. That was its 
own little ... But we were under the umbrella of Cubic, so Cubic 
was the main one for the rotations and all of that. 
SIMS: 
22:38 
So as I guess Iraq drew down and less soldiers went to 
Afghanistan, that's when sort of the business sort of dried up, 
because they didn't do those rotations? 
BEALL: 
22:50 
Well, when our President ... Well, not our President now, but 
Obama, decided to cut down on the troops being over in ... At 
that time it was Afghanistan, then is when we started seeing a 
lot of pullback on the rotations in Afghanistan, because a lot of 
the training at that time period ... Well, when war hit for Iraq, of 
course training, training, training in Iraq.  
BEALL: 
23:23 
Then we went into Afghanistan, but we still had guys in Iraq, 
which, you know, we had to. So then we went into the Afghan, 
so we had Iraq and Afghan. So then we pulled out of 
Afghanistan and our rotations went into ... I mean, excuse me, 
Iraq ... Pulled out of Iraq and then went into Afghanistan, so our 
rotations for the guys from Iraq cut back tremendously and then 
went to zero. 
BEALL: 
23:58 
Then it was Afghanistan only, so then we had the Afghan 
foreigners then. Then that ... When Obama cut back the 
American troops from over there, that's when the rotations 
started dwindling down then.  
BEALL: 
24:15 
I think it's right now almost null and void. You know, there's 
maybe a few scenarios that goes on, but not nothing like it was. 
We at one time at the end of Mobius Industry's lifespan I guess 
you'd say, we were actually recruiting all different types of 
people for any type rotation, whether it be from Bosnians, from 
Japan, from Korea. I mean we were at that time period 
recruiting for any other kind of ... Africa, I mean to ... Because 
you never know.  
SIMS: 
25:13 
So did Mobius do the local recruiting as well?  
BEALL: 
25:17 
Uh-huh (affirmative). Yeah.  
SIMS: 
25:20 
Like people from Leesville?  
BEALL: 
25:21 
Yes.  
SIMS: 
25:21 
Like that's all- 
BEALL: 
25:21 
Oh, now for ... Well, yes. Yes and no. Yes because if anyone 
were local to do the rotations that's needed at that time period 
they would hire them on if needed. But civilians, like American 
civilians, that all went through Cubic.  
SIMS: 
25:42 
Okay. Because Mobius is basically a more dedicated- 
BEALL: 
25:46 
Foreign nationals. 
SIMS: 
25:47 
Foreign nationals? 
BEALL: 
25:48 
Right.  
SIMS: 
25:49 
Okay. But you, yourself, sort of worked at different times in 
different organizations? 
BEALL: 
25:55 
Well, I, myself, at the time that I went and was working with 
Cubic was not working with Mobius. Mobius had already 
disappeared. 
SIMS: 
26:04 
And then you became a role player yourself? 
BEALL: 
26:07 
I did.  
SIMS: 
26:09 
What was that experience like, having ... I guess you had done it 
years earlier too? 
BEALL: 
26:13 
I did that back in 1990 ... I actually started with a company 
called BDM, and that was 1996 I want to say. 
SIMS: 
26:26 
So maybe go back to that, like how did you get started ... How 
did you hear about it and get started in it? How did you think 
about it? 
BEALL: 
26:33 
At that time period ... We moved here in '92, so I just happened 
to hear of it from friends. I went out there and applied and 
there was ... I actually started as a dispatcher. That was 
dispatching the role players out to the villages, you know. Or if 
they all had ... Like the ... At that time period they called them 
work group leaders, and if anything was needed they would call 
in, and of course I was the dispatchers. I would take those ... 
Any messages. 
BEALL: 
27:08 
Or if there was any ... At night, if there was any feed from the 
military, you know, needing anything, I would document 
everything. So I went from actually the dispatcher to role play. 
So then I was out doing the role play out in the box, and at that 
time period it was ... I forgot what group it was. I want to say 
the Bosnians that was coming in, but that was quite interesting. 
That was an interesting- 
SIMS: 
27:45 
How so?  
BEALL: 
27:48 
Well, one scenario I can tell you as a role player, my role was a 
nurse and I had a husband that was a role player. His name was 
Steve Humphries. He was the doctor. So he and I were actually 
husband and wife as role play. We were in a village and we 
actually were always part of the take down. That's whenever 
the American troops come into the village and they're trying to 
hold down the village and whatever is going on.  
BEALL: 
28:27 
Well, we were always at the hospital because he was a doctor, I 
was a nurse, so they had a hospital in this village. One of the 
funny things were that the American troops had a ... Was 
holding up the hospital with a tank and had aimed at the 
hospital. Everyone knows that ... Red Cross, the Geneva 
Convention, you know ... Anyhow, they ... That was a good 
lesson learned for the American troops there, because you just 
can't do that.  
BEALL: 
29:04 
So my role play husband decides he's going to try to go out 
there and talk to the American troops and was taken down 
himself on the ground. Well, of course me being his wife, ran 
out there after him, you know, trying to get him to listen, you 
know, to what we're doing. It just went from bad to worse. 
BEALL: 
29:28 
So I mean it was a very good learning tool for the American 
troops. I'm sure their after action review was wonderful, you 
know. They probably got their little tails reamed, but anyhow, 
that's what it's about.  
BEALL: 
29:48 
At that time period, when we were doing role play, there was a 
lot of kind of real world stuff. We made gardens. We had real 
animals out there. We had goats. We had gardens. We had 
cooking, which they still did that out there. So sometimes the 
American troops would go out there, stop into the village and 
eat and whatever. It was a lot of fun. It was a whole lot of fun, 
and you can actually see the value of what you're doing for 
those troops. 
BEALL: 
30:24 
It's not always easy, because you're out there at all hours of the 
night. Back then, you were out there all hours of the night. 
SIMS: 
30:34 
So how did it change I guess over those 15 years maybe?  
BEALL: 
30:40 
Well, of course life changes. The military change their ways in 
different scenarios. This last time I was doing role play, we ... Of 
course you could tell that the American troops were a little 
more educated, you know. They weren't just thrown in and like 
you wing it. I'm not saying that they did just get thrown in back 
then, but I could tell this time they more or less were a little 
more educated with what was going on and how to handle 
scenarios and not quite letting something slip on them, you 
know, which is great, because I mean there's been ... In our 
generation now there's been war, where before that there had 
not been. So I did see that. I did see a lot of that.  
SIMS: 
31:41 
So when was the period after Mobius ... Did you go from 
Mobius to role play? 
BEALL: 
31:46 
Uh-huh (affirmative). I did.  
SIMS: 
31:47 
Can you tell me the approximate dates or years when you did 
role play? 
BEALL: 
31:51 
That as about nine years ago, so what is that? This is 2017, so 
2000, 1990 ... What was that? Wait. No.  
SIMS: 
32:05 
You said Mobius in '08? 
BEALL: 
32:08 
In probably '08 ... '07 and '08. Yeah.  
SIMS: 
32:11 
And how long were you there in Mobius?  
BEALL: 
32:15 
Seven years.  
SIMS: 
32:16 
Okay. And then you did a couple years in- 
BEALL: 
32:19 
I did. I actually still stuck with the company for a little while. It 
was a branch off of Mobius. The owner of Mobius Industries 
had other things going on, so when I left Mobius I actually went 
to work in Baton Rouge and then Lafayette, and then came 
home, and then decided that I'm going to do real estate. Got 
back into real estate, and then decided I'm going to go do the 
rotations, thinking I was going to be able to do both. 
BEALL: 
32:51 
Well, I did do rotations again for a year and found out I cannot 
do ... It's either one or the other, you know. Unfortunately, the 
rotations don't give you time. You know, you're out there for 16 
hours, you're out there for 16 hours. You have no 
communication and you are doing your job out there. And you 
can't do real estate and do that. 
BEALL: 
33:20 
A little more flexibility with real estate, which worked better for 
me personally, so ... Not because I didn't like the role play, it's 
just that it just worked better for me.  
SIMS: 
33:31 
Yeah. It seems like it's a tricky thing for role players who have a 
family, like you're ... I imagine there's other professions like this 
too, but you are more or less completely gone for that time. 
BEALL: 
33:31 
You are.  
SIMS: 
33:48 
And then when you're back, you have more time but it's- 
BEALL: 
33:50 
Yes.  
SIMS: 
33:55 
So can you talk for a little bit about role players with families, 
like how that ... How people made that work?  
BEALL: 
34:03 
Well, I know at that time period ... Well, of course the first time 
I did rotation, of course you had to have a spouse help you. I 
had four children at home, you know, so I did have to have help. 
I was doing shift work, so I more or less kind of took the night 
shift, so that way the children were taken care of. Of course I 
had a spouse to help me then. 
BEALL: 
34:33 
This last time ... Of course all my children are grown. I had a 
daughter in high school at that time period when I was doing 
that, and she had just graduated, or just getting ready to 
graduate. But it wasn't quite so hard with that, because I took 
the day shift, so that that way by the time she got finished with 
doing her stuff I was home shortly after.  
BEALL: 
34:59 
But I can see where it's hard, especially if you're trying to ... If 
you have younger children, because you are out there, and then 
you never know what ... You might be locked out in the box. 
And if you're locked in the box, then you're out there. I mean 
you've got to have someone to rely on to be able to take care of 
your children or whatever the case may be, so it can be quite 
demanding.  
SIMS: 
35:26 
Can you remember any other funny or strange stories? 
BEALL: 
35:32 
Oh, my gosh, there's so many of them. Well, back when I was 
working with Steve Humphries, we really had some stories back 
then. There were three of us girls that were ... That the 
American troops had come in and actually hid back in behind 
the village, and not knowing really why, but they had me on the 
hit list.  
BEALL: 
36:06 
I'm not really sure why I was on the hit list, but I was on the hit 
list, so they put me and three others on our knees in what they 
call the town square, and I mean that ... Of course, me ... You 
know, we're supposed to make it hard, so we just kept talking 
and being loud, and they kept telling us to shut up. He put a 
sock over our mouth, so we had to be quiet. But anyhow ... Oh, 
yeah, we ... That was a big one.  
SIMS: 
36:38 
Was that sort of funny or scary like when that ... I mean 
obviously it's not real, but like what is ... How do you feel- 
BEALL: 
36:47 
I can't even imagine how I would feel, I mean, if it was for real.  
SIMS: 
36:51 
But I mean like when you're acting, is it all kind of- 
BEALL: 
36:55 
No. You know in the back of your mind this is just a scenario, 
but you're still ... At that time period you're not knowing why, 
even you. 
SIMS: 
37:04 
Uh-huh (affirmative), like why you're on the hit list?  
BEALL: 
37:05 
Why am I on the hit list? What did I do? But for some reason I 
was on the hit list, and that's their scenario. So see, they have 
scenarios too. They have things that are supposed to be going 
on in this village that they're out there to protect, so they come 
in and they're doing their job. But we as the role players, or the 
village people, we don't know. We don't know what's going on.  
BEALL: 
37:38 
So they come in and it ... Like at night, when they have their 
take downs, it's night. Usually when they hit the village, okay, 
it's night and you're hunkered in. They're busting in doors, 
they're rampaging around, going through everything. You better 
get out of their way, because if you're not you're going to get 
hit. There has been several people, role players, that have 
gotten hurt because-  
PART 2 OF 3 ENDS [00:38:04] 
BEALL: 
38:00 
There have been several people, role players, that have gotten 
hurt, because they're in their way. You know. Because they are 
literally busting down doors and ransacking each building and 
there's shooting going on. There's tanks coming in. I mean, 
there's just, I can't even imagine what it would be for the real 
world. It's exciting for role players, because your adrenaline is 
rolling and you just hear all this commotion, but in the back of 
your mind you know they're doing this for their training. But 
still.  
SIMS: 
38:42 
What happens if there's a scenario where there's, I don't know, 
five role players in the house, soldiers come through and door 
hits somebody hard. Do they just call like a time out? 
BEALL: 
38:55 
No.  
SIMS: 
38:55 
No?  
BEALL: 
38:56 
No. Half the time they don't even know they're doing it. 
Because they have their night vision goggles on, or this that and 
the other. You are warned as a role player ahead of time, to get 
out of the way. Make sure you're clear of all doors. All windows. 
Get somewhere and hunker down. So now, we have had it to 
where they have come in and they've got a gun at you. And 
during role play, you've got M.I.L.E.S. gear on. So they could 
accidentally shoot you, because you've got gunfire going 
everywhere. And if you're M.I.L.E.S. gear goes off, you've got 
what they call a kill card. You look at the kill card and see are 
you wounded, what the deal is. At this time, you start hearing a 
bunch of screaming going on, I mean. It's just total chaos.  
BEALL: 
39:56 
Half the time they have smoke bombs and stuff like that going 
on. It's just craziness. It's just craziness. For the role players, like 
I say, it's an adrenaline rush, you know, because even though 
you know, in the back of your mind you know that this is 
training, it's still the fact that it's all going on. For the military, 
they have a job. Even though us role players are warned to stay 
out of the way, you know. I mean any civilian rather you start 
hearing all that commotion going outside, you're gonna get kids 
and you're gonna go somewhere for protection.  
SIMS: 
40:51 
What was it ... I guess when it's not as chaotic and busy and 
there's more downtime, are the role players and soldiers just 
talking during the break, is that allowed? 
BEALL: 
41:14 
You have to always stay in role. When you're out in the box, you 
have to stay in role, because experience if the military is around. 
Half the time, you don't know if that military is laying in the 
grass watching you. You don't know whether they're scoping 
you out or not, so if you're ... and you always need to be visible. 
You can't just be hunkered up in the little houses and reading a 
book or whatever the case may be.  
BEALL: 
41:42 
You need to be out and about like a normal village would be. 
They cook in those villages. They mingle around, cook, a lot of 
them, if they're gardening or outside walking or whatever the 
case may be, like I said, in the back, in the 90s, like 19 I don't 
know, 98 I guess or 99, they actually got out there and was 
doing real live gardens and rigging stuff up for water to be in the 
garden. I mean they were just doing real world scenario things 
you would do if you had no electric, if you had no ... you know, 
you're in a rural area, so you're always working if you're doing 
that.  
BEALL: 
42:40 
Today's day and age, out there, when I was doing the role play, 
they didn't have a lot of that. You didn't ... and it depended on 
what village you were in. I was in a village called Dara Lam.  
SIMS: 
42:40 
That's a big one. 
BEALL: 
42:58 
That's the big village. It was more per se modernized, so you 
wouldn't have all that. One of my scenarios too, was I was 
women's rights this time. Well, in Afghanistan, you may be in a 
village like Dara Lam that is a more modernized village. The 
women aren't as let's say shunned. That might not be a good 
word, shunned. They are, they're given a voice, more of a voice. 
Well, there are now in Afghanistan, women's rights. They have 
got that together, they've gotten that, pulled that together, and 
my role was coordinating this women's rights. The men, you're 
actually role playing within role play, because we would, our 
job, me and a couple other ones, would go to these outskirt 
villages and try to win our women over- 
SIMS: 
44:23 
Right, so even the military is not even necessarily seeing this. 
BEALL: 
44:27 
Well, yes, and you're doing role pay with in role play to try to 
get this because, what I'm trying to do is coordinate these 
women, we're gonna have a big riot going on with the women, 
and now the military's in, so the military is like what is going on.  
SIMS: 
44:46 
When you're going out to another village, and you're talking to 
another woman there, is anyone telling her, yes you should go 
along with this. It's part of the scenario or is it up to them to say 
like, well I don't know, I just- 
BEALL: 
45:00 
Yeah, it's up to them. It's just like real world, if you were trying 
to recruit women to be part of this organization, do you want 
to, do you not want to, and some of them didn't want to 
because they're still in that rural area, and still under that man's 
thumb, so they are not gonna step out of line and go anywhere.  
SIMS: 
45:26 
How did you ... did you take a taxi or did you have your own 
car? 
BEALL: 
45:29 
No, we had, most of the time we had our own car that was 
issued. We had to take our own car. Sometimes I would ride 
with somebody else that was going to the other villages, hitch a 
ride, whatever, but yeah, that was quite interesting. 
SIMS: 
45:49 
Yeah, it sounds like a fun job.  
BEALL: 
45:50 
It was. It suited me perfectly.  
SIMS: 
45:54 
Right. I really like the idea of role play with in role play. That it 
starts to spin off and has its own- 
BEALL: 
46:02 
It does, and then you create real havoc for the military, because 
when you're doing something ... we had a big riot, in which 
actually it was a women's appreciation day. We'd make up our 
own things. One of the things that we made up was a women's 
appreciation day, and this was in Dara Lam.  
SIMS: 
46:24 
So, what would you do for that? 
BEALL: 
46:24 
We'd gather all the women in Dara Lam, because see Dara 
Lam's big, so we'd gather all the women in Dara Lam, and of 
course the women in Dara Lam were all more or less into the 
women's' rights kind of thing. We'd be marching down the 
street. Well, we had a women's appreciation day there in Dara 
Lam, which we were marching down the street, and then it 
went from a women's appreciation day to a all out riot, because 
we're trying to get into one of the buildings that the military are 
housed in, and they wouldn't let us in, so it went into one big 
fight because they wouldn't let us in the building. It was our 
building and our village, and so it just went from one thing after 
another. 
BEALL: 
47:15 
That's good training for them because they didn't expect it. This 
is not something on their list that they were expecting. So now 
what do we do? How do you have this under control? They had 
the guards at the front of the building. We're making all kinds of 
noise and just screaming to the top of our lungs. We really had 
... and I was an instigator of getting all these kinds of things 
together. We made it fun. It was fun.  
SIMS: 
47:48 
So like, over how many days did it take for you to pull that 
together? 
BEALL: 
47:54 
We knew, like I say, when we went in for orientation, we knew 
what the scenario was, and we knew what our role was, and 
why, and when the military, usually in Dara Lam, they setup 
house. The military will come in and they'll set house, setup 
house there. Well we know that there's a lot that goes on in 
Dara Lam.  
SIMS: 
48:18 
Are they in that hotel building or the embassy? 
BEALL: 
48:21 
Most of the time the embassy is right there. They'd have the 
embassy, then there's the police, and then there's the ... we had 
a makeshift hospital. We had the, oh my gosh, what was it, the 
national ... At the other end of Dara Lam, they had its own little 
kind of little village down in there, and that's where the 
meetings were held.  
SIMS: 
48:52 
Like over that bridge? 
BEALL: 
48:53 
Yeah, over the bridge. Right when you come in, they got that 
little one, and then you go on into the big one. That one right 
there was where the big wigs would come in and, I cannot think 
of it, my mind just went blank, kind of like a board, and talked 
to the big wigs, and let them know that, hey look this is what 
you should or should not be doing. 
SIMS: 
48:53 
Like the Loya Jirga, is that it? 
BEALL: 
49:26 
No. If you said it, I would be able to tell you. It would be where 
the ones that was in charge in the environmental. 
SIMS: 
49:41 
Oh, the NGOs.  
BEALL: 
49:42 
NGOs, that's it. That was where the NGOs were, down in there. 
So anyhow, that's where they met and where the military big 
wigs would come in and they would have their meetings down 
there to kind of get an idea of what's going on with the 
environmental, what's going on with this and that. Sometimes 
there was some environmental issues going on like no potable 
water. We have a pond that needs to be cleared up. It's like 
what the military can do for them. So, that's where the 
meetings were held there for that.  
BEALL: 
50:26 
Some of that is not on their list either, because we would come 
up with some good scenarios there too as well. I was an NGO. I 
went from NGO to, like I say, your roles change, so you could be 
an NGO one time or you could be ... and that's something else 
too. As part of an NGO, my women's rights, we would go down 
and talk to them about the women's rights and dah, dah, dah, 
dah, dah.  
SIMS: 
50:56 
Did the women rights group have an actual office space or was 
it a little more- 
BEALL: 
51:02 
Yeah, we had our own office space. And in fact, on my phone I 
had up a poster that we created ourself for the women's rights. 
We had it posted everywhere. We take them to the village. We 
had flyers that we would pass out for women's rights. We'd post 
it up everywhere. The thing about the military is, they didn't 
know whether this was a legit women's right group or if this was 
bad guys, because you know we could be bad guys. 
SIMS: 
51:39 
Trying to stir up trouble or something. 
BEALL: 
51:42 
Right. So- 
SIMS: 
51:45 
Did the military figure out who you are and sort of ask you 
questions about that? 
BEALL: 
51:49 
Oh yes. Of course, sometimes we were pretty vague, so just to 
keep them thinking, well I might need to check into them and 
see what's going on. And that's what we would tell our women, 
if they ask questions, don't answer. Tell them, you're not 
supposed to be talking to them anyway. It was ... you create 
your own scenario. If you're good at it, you create your own and 
as long as you're going in guideline. Now, if it's a big change in 
what they're doing, you need to get permission.  
SIMS: 
52:32 
And that's from your- 
BEALL: 
52:33 
That's from the higher ups back on base. You've got to ... or you 
go to your work group leader. You can't just change, you can 
never change a scenario, ever. Whatever that scenario is, it has 
to be that scenario. You cannot change that scenario, unless it 
comes from a higher up.  
SIMS: 
52:54 
What would be an example of changing something now, like in 
the moment that you're not allowed to do? 
BEALL: 
52:59 
Well, I would say probably, like this riot. We had to make sure it 
was okay that we were doing this, because they could have 
been in the middle of doing another scenario at the time that 
we were trying to do this riot, that they didn't want changed. 
That's why we couldn't do that, so we had to actually pass it by, 
hey is it okay if we have a riot, is it okay if the women's rights 
come marching down the street and have a riot at the ... you 
know, so. 
SIMS: 
53:34 
And that, like how far up, that would go to your group leader, 
and then- 
BEALL: 
53:39 
And then they would do the ... well the work group leader who's 
out there with us, that has the radio on them at all times, then 
there is the shift leader, and then they would have to go up to 
either, if it's real bit, it's would be Bill David that would be the 
one to do that or David Detz, whoever was in charge at that 
time. So, if it's something that's going to ... and if something has 
happened in that village that it's drawing that military out to 
where they are reacting, that all has to be told. That all has to 
be written down, because then that way we're tracking what's 
going on for that rotation, as far as interaction with the military. 
Then of course, they have their, I'm sure they have their review 
or after action review, all that too, but I mean our side.  
BEALL: 
54:37 
It kind of also gives Cubic an insight of how often do we bring 
out the military or often do we do our jobs to get them to 
interact with them. I know the NGO officer, the NCO or 
whatever, we always had to write down how did this go, what 
did they talk about, you know, this that and the other. So, 
they're keeping track of it too.  
SIMS: 
55:11 
We've covered a lot.  
BEALL: 
55:12 
I know. 
SIMS: 
55:13 
Is there anything you feel like we didn't cover that's important 
to mention? 
BEALL: 
55:19 
I think a lot of people, they don't realize the value and what this 
is and what it's all about. Like I said, there's a lot of young guys 
that have left Fort Polk training and has been sent over to Iraq 
or sent over to Afghanistan and has come back and said, "Thank 
God we had the training, because it really was setting us up for 
what we were up against". A lot of people don't realize how 
important it is with the role players, and you as a role player, 
your job is to make sure that those kids that are out there 
serving our country are protected. That's our job, to make sure 
that they're protected, that they come back home alive. It just, 
you can't say enough about it. That's it.  
SIMS: 
56:30 
Well, thank you for your time.  
BEALL: 
56:35 
You're welcome.  
SIMS: 
56:36 
It was great to talk with you.  
[INTERVIEW ENDS 00:56:40]