Multi-Generational African American Farmers of the Midwest
Anna-Lisa Cox
Library of Congress AFC Archie Green Fellowship
Date of interview: July 23th, 2019
Names/s of those interviewed: Glenn Morris
Primary Interviewer: Anna-Lisa Cox (ALC)
Secondary Interviewers: Lishawna Taylor
Interview Location: Lyles Station Museum, Princeton, Gibson County, Indiana
Transcriber: Mary Kamara-Hagemeyer
Abstract: Mr. Glenn Morris owns the oldest and most successful African-American-owned
“beef” farms in Indiana, where he also raises a variety of crops on his farm in the African
American farming community of Lyles Station, Indiana (Lyles Station is featured in a major
exhibit at the Smithsonian’s NMAAHC). Members of the African-descended Morris family
arrived in the Wabash river valley around 1800 from Charleston, SC where they have been
propertied free people of color. In the 1790s they petitioned the state of SC to end the
recently-created racist poll tax levied against them, before many of them left for the Northwest
Territorial frontier. Members of the Morris family helped to build Fort Allison and fought in the
War of 1812 in the Northwest Territory. In 2019 Glenn Morris was the first African American
farmer in the history of Indiana to be awarded “Farmer of the Day” at the 2019 Indiana State
Fair. (
https://www.tristatehomepage.com/news/local-news/tri-state-farmer-makes-history-at-the-indian
a-state-fair/
,
https://www.farmprogress.com/farm-operations/featured-farmers-state-fair-represent-beef-bees-a
nd-more )
Link to television video of interview with Glenn Morris on his farm:
https://www.tristatehomepage.com/news/local-news/tri-state-farmer-makes-history-at-the-indiana-state-fa
ir/
1
Index/Log (5 Minute Time Stamped)
Part 1 of 2
[0:00]
[5:00] Talks about dangers of livestock and how people would get injured, tractors began to be
used in place of horses and mules. Raising and shucking corn and the different techniques
utilized. The process of baling hay and Glenn’s roles in helping as a child.
[10:00] Glenn took over farming with his grandfather on about 150 acres. Raising York and
Hampshire hogs and the intense workload of farming.
[15:00] Talks about different hog breeds and techniques to buying. Illnesses that the hogs
contracted and how Glenn dealt with this difficulty. Glenn took his hogs to market and learned
how to sell what was wanted.
[20:00] Talks about the timeline of raising selling hogs, their weights and other details.
Committing to farming full time after being laid off from a factory job. Was drawn to farming by
watching the success of his grandfather’s work.
[25:00] Glenn discusses how he enjoys farming and buying his first piece of land from Willis
Hardiman. Discusses details of his family’s land and where his family had farmed before.
[30:00] Glenn tells the story of how his great grandfather was killed in an accident, and his
grandfather took over the farm as a teenager.  Discusses how he always wanted to buy land, and
how he’s more than doubled what was passed down to him.
[35:00] Discusses how grandfather kept his land through the great depression and his philosophy
of paying for something right when he bought it. His grandfather’s reputation for being
successful and reliable.
[40:00] Glenn never applied for any federal or bank loans [ALC: African American farmers in
Gibson County Indiana and the surrounding counties were profoundly affected throughout the
20th century by the racist practices of local banks and the Department of Agriculture, which
denied them loans or used predatory loan practices to take their land].  Discusses how he bought
and raised cows, and the size of his herd, and doing all the work on his own.  Glenn transitioned
to selling grain and feeder calves.
2
[45:00] Glenn brings his calves up to the stock market and sells them as a group, his animals
garner some of the highest bids. Talks about his dislike for the sale barn and how his grandfather
raised feeder calves as well.
[50:00] Discusses what kind of land is good for cattle and which for crops. Glenn talks about his
grain and hay crops and cutting back to make sure he can handle all his operations on his own.
Letting cows go free range is less work for the farmer and allows for easy rotation between
pastures. ALC comments that he naturally is doing “diversified farming.”
[55:00] Glenn talks about his hobby of flying and discusses the airplane he bought and flew. He
explains he’s gotten to complete almost everything he’s wanted to do. Grandparents and parents
both had large vegetable gardens and “truck gardens” where they grew and sold melons and
strawberries from a stand.
[60:00] Talks about adapting the use of chemicals in crop farming and the time and work it
saves. Shares that he believes farming has advanced too quickly and discusses the crowding out
of small farms by big farms.  Grandfather’s advice to stay out of date and the current challenges
of farming successfully without accumulating debt.
[1:02:06] End of part 1 of this interview – interview continues in part 2 audio
3