1 
 
Project: Trash Talk: Workers in Vermont’s Changing Waste Management Industry 
Narrator:  Trevor Mance, Owner-Operator of T.A.M. Incorporated, T.A.M. Recycling, and 
T.A.M. Organics 
Interviewer:  Virginia Nickerson 
Date: January 4, 2019 
Place: Offices of T.A.M. Incorporated, T.A.M. Recycling, and T.A.M. Organics 
Transcribed by:  Teresa Bergen   
 
Nickerson:  So, this is Ginger Nickerson and I am interviewing Trevor Mance at the T.A.M. 
offices in Shaftsbury, Vermont, on January 4, 2019. So Trevor, could you tell me the town and 
the year you were born? 
 
Mance:  Town and the year I was born. I was born in Goshen, New York, in 1979. 
 
00:00:29 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. Thank you. And what is your current job, and how long have you been in this 
line of work? 
 
Mance:  Okay. So my current job, the technical title would be owner of T.A.M., Incorporated, 
and T.A.M. Recycling and T.A.M. Organics. We actually have three companies. So how long 
I’ve been doing this is 23 years, 1996, October 4, 1996, to be exact, was the first day I got into 
this industry. Well, that’s not true. The first day I became self-employed. I worked for the town 
of Shaftsbury before that at the recycling center. That’s how I got into the industry. 
 
Nickerson:  Okay, yeah. So do you want to tell me that story, how you got to where you are 
today. 
 
Mance:  Sure. So as I like to say, in this career, you don’t pick this career; it picks you. So I owe, 
as every good adolescent and child, owes everything to their mother. My mother is the reason 
why I’m in this industry. So she said when I was in high school, “It’s time to get a job, and look 
at this ad in the paper. There’s an opening at the town transfer station.” Well, landfill back then. 
I’ve got to watch my terms as we progress 23 years later. So the job was working at the recycling 
center. At the time, minimum wage was $4.20 an hour, which I was working on a horse farm. So 
the idea that this job was paying six dollars an hour was very attractive to somebody that was a 
sophomore in high school. 
 
And so I applied. And by fate, got the job at the recycling center. It was Saturday and half 
day Sunday. And my job was just to help people recycle. So I would pack the roll off with the 
paper in it. Back then, we had 13 separations. A far cry from our single-stream recycling that we 
have now. So the brown glass, clear glass, green glass. The newspapers, magazines, box board, 
cardboard, aluminum, tin, plastics one and plastics two, and I think I forgot one. But that was my 
job back then, to help people separate all those different things. Three through sevens were not 
even in existence in the recycling world. [These are types of recycling categories for plastics] 
 
So I worked there for about, I think it was like 18 months to two years or so. And what I 
found is that I really enjoyed the people aspect of it, as I think most successful transfer station 
attendants do. I enjoyed the recycling part of it, the environmental [aspect], it felt good to 
2 
 
recycle. It felt good that at the end of the day that I could see what was dumped at the open 
landfill, the unlined landfill. And I could see what we loaded into the containers. And that was 
kind of neat that that was going to get recycled, so I liked that part of it.  
But I also got to know the [trash] haulers. So there was like three or four small haulers at 
that point. And one of the gentlemen, Ray Granger, was a character. He had an old white Dodge 
that his wife always did crossword puzzles every time they came in. And she and Ray would 
come in and I would help Ray unload his recycling. And we became friends. And he said he was 
going to get out of the garbage world. He was in his, probably late sixties at that point, which, 
it’s a hard life. And that was an old garbage man back then. (laughs)  
So we negotiated and came up with a price of three thousand dollars for 60 stops. Now it 
was 60 stops in the end. What I actually negotiated for was 240 stops. And I learned my first rule 
in business. To never trust anybody. (laughs)  
So the first day, when I was putting the sides on my rack body truck and got done about 
10:30 at night, and it was an old, used truck, which my father was nice enough to cosign for. He 
didn’t pay for it, but he said, “I’ll cosign and help you get the truck.” So he did that.  
And we went out that first day and a lot of the stops said, “Yeah, I had Ray four or five 
years ago. I haven’t had him since.” And so I learned that 240 got pared down to 60. So it was a 
great business moment. Again, to learn not to trust everything that you hear. And then it was also 
a great thing because the fear came pretty quick. The fear was, okay, now what do I do? Because 
I’ve got to make that truck payment, and I have to be able to afford to do this. 
So I went out and got stops. I started making little pamphlets. And I had a moped at the 
time. And I drove the moped around town. I learned quickly that you can’t put them in 
mailboxes. Federal offense. (laughs) So I was told, don’t do that. Nicely, but sternly. So I would 
put them in Penny Saver boxes. So I’d put them in Penny Savers, and I flyered, and I flyered. 
And low and behold, when you do a good job in a small town, word of mouth is the best 
advertising. So 60 stops grew. And I don't know how in depth you want to go with the 
progression of 23 years. I could do the bookends. Or we could work our way through it. 
 
00:06:01 
 
Nickerson:  This is your story. So you get to make that choice. 
 
Mance:  (laughs) So okay, up on my soapbox I’ll go. So the progression was, Shaftsbury, grew 
the route there. About two years later, I started in Bennington. Same program where I started by 
flyering. And the first flyering that I did, I had seven stops. Of those seven, interestingly, I just 
was looking back and we still have four out of the seven. Which is kind of neat. And of the 60, a 
lot of those folks, unfortunately, have passed away. But it’s still neat to run the old route in my 
mind. And if they’re still alive, they’re still customers, so, 23 years later. So, Bennington and 
then at the time I was dating the daughter of the Pownal town clerk. And she introduced me to 
the local garbage man down in Pownal, Ernie Roberts. And so I bought Ernie’s route, because he 
decided he wanted to get out. So suddenly we were in Pownal with a few hundred stops as well. 
 
So I went to Hudson Valley [College]. My background there is I originally wanted to be 
an attorney. I don't know why. (laughs) But as I said, the garbage world found me. And I didn't 
have the grades to get into RPI. I was going to go to RPI for business. Because I liked the 
business. 
 
3 
 
Nickerson:  Rensselaer Polytech [Institute]. 
 
Mance:  Yes. Yep. So they said, at RPI, well go to Hudson Valley, get a two-year education, and 
you can transfer in. So the frugal side of me said well that’s a lot cheaper than doing it the other 
way. So I did that and went to Hudson Valley two years. And I would run my route at night, I 
would run it super early in the morning, and I would try to do my class schedule around that. So 
during that time period, I grew from around 100 stops to I was pushing 400 stops, 500 stops. And 
I also cut a lot of firewood. I used to cut about 120 cords of firewood because I was bored, I 
guess, I don't know.  
So I learned a lot of time management. And I learned a lot of hardship, too, because there 
was nobody else to work with me. So when something happened, whether there was an injury, 
whether there was a truck problem, it was always something that I just had to fix or figure out. 
So there were times when the truck would break. And the hardship included dealing with local 
political people and a town administrator that didn’t like that I was in business. So I can 
remember one weekend when the truck broke down and I rented a U-Haul, they rejected my 
garbage because I didn’t have a dump sticker on the U-Haul truck. And I would rent this U-Haul, 
I’d throw a tarp in it and duct tape it so they never knew that I put garbage in it. And that’s how I 
picked up. But lo and behold, they refused a load. So I had to dump that at my parents’ house to 
pick it back up. So I had mounds of garbage that I’d have to then reload, and I would bring it in 
when the truck was fixed. So I learned that getting along with the administrators was important.  
I also learned that when you had an injury, whether it was this one here on my hand, 
where you can still see the stitch marks, I grabbed a garbage can on a wet, rainy pickup day, and 
it sliced between my thumb and my index finger down, and I lost the use of two fingers. So, 
drove myself to the hospital. They did a nice job of reattaching the tendons. And finished the 
route. Because that’s what you do. In the garbage world, you never don't pick up. It’s an 
unacceptable idea. 
Tore my rotator cuff throwing the garbage up into the back of the truck. So I had to do 
400 stops with one arm. To which it then strained the other one to the point where they said, “It’s 
going to tear. And if you don’t stop, then you’re going to have to have surgery.” I didn’t stop. 
(laughs) Because you always pick up the garbage. We’re kind of like dairy farmers. Like there’s 
no option not to milk the cows; that’s what you do. 
So after Hudson Valley, I did have the grades, I’m proud to say that I graduated with a 
3.8. And they said, “Come on to RPI.” And I said, the only Achilles heel that I have is I can’t do 
calculus really well. (laughs) So I needed to go to Sienna College. And Sienna, I got a business 
administration degree at Hudson Valley. I then went to Sienna for marketing and management. 
And that was because they only required Calc. 1. RPI, to get a business degree, required Calc. 2. 
And I took the path of least resistance.  
So at that point, I was seven, 800 stops. And it was a lot of work. I can still recall my 
Mondays. My Monday route, I would get up and I would do my route, I’d do my Pownal route at 
about three o’clock in the morning. I would get done with that. I would drive to the burn plant, 
which is in Hudson Falls, New York, about an hour and a half away, in the garbage truck. I 
would then go from Hudson Falls down to— 
 
00:11:35 
 
Nickerson:  And the burn plant, that’s where they were burning some of the trash? 
4 
 
 
Mance:  The incinerator, yes. So I would take the garbage truck down. And I had a Burger King 
that I would stop along the way. And I would get out, I would grab my hamburger and I would 
switch over to a button-up shirt. I was like Superman in the Burger King. In as a garbage man, 
out as a business management student. Back in the garbage truck and find a far off spot in the 
parking lot and park.  
 
So I would go to class. I’d have two classes that day. And then my six-to-nine class 
would end and I was back at ten o’clock. And I had to do cardboard on the way home so I could 
get the cardboard off on Tuesday morning. So every Monday was 20 to 21 hours. And that was 
one of many days. But again, the garbage world is just, it’s very, the only thing constant is 
change, as we like to say. And I like that. And I like the hard work aspect of it. 
 
So along the way, how the money part of it kind of progressed, what’s neat about the 
garbage world is everything is volume-driven. So I figured out quickly that when you have 
enough stops and you’re dumping locally at a certain price point, when you have enough 
garbage, then I could afford to buy a packer truck. And I could buy that packing truck, which had 
seven or eight ton, to the incinerator that I was talking about, Hudson Falls. And I said, well, I 
can save so much money. This makes way more sense to get away from the local big haulers that 
kind of control the market. 
 
00:13:19 
 
Nickerson:  Explain what a packing truck is? 
 
Mance:  So a packing truck, at that point, there are so many different ones along the way, I 
guess, that I’ve gone through that actually don’t even exist now. So we had a [Trucksmore?]. It 
was a barrel truck that it looked like a great big culvert. And it had one plate that kind of pushed 
the garbage back (laughs) and came forward. I had one of those. I had a little rear-load truck, 
which is what we all know as kind of the quintessential garbage truck. You walk to the back and 
it’s got the big hopper, with the half-round hopper. And you throw the garbage in it and a packer 
blade comes down and sweeps the hopper clean and packs it into the body cavity. 
  
00:13:59 
 
Nickerson:  So essentially, packer trucks squish the trash so you can get more of it in. 
 
Mance:  Yeah. My first truck was an open rack body. It was a crew cab. Former builders’ truck 
that I put a nine-foot dump body on it. So it was very simple. I had racks on it, wooden racks. 
And I would dump the garbage at the dump and drive away. And that was it. You could get 40 or 
50 stops on a load. A packing truck, once I went through a couple really antiquated used packer 
trucks, my first new packer truck could hold seven or eight tons. 
 
And so when I went to the bank, my dad marched me up to the Chittenden Bank, which 
doesn’t exist anymore. (laughs) And Andy Holsman was the banker. And he said, “So what do 
you want to do?” 
 
I said, “I need to borrow money.” 
 
He said, “How much money?” 
 
I said, “Ninety thousand dollars.” It’s actually $88,000. 
5 
 
 
And he said, “Why would I loan a 20 year-old $90,000?” 
 
I said, “Well, because it’s going to make money.” 
 
He says, “Well, you need to do a pro forma statement.” 
 
I said, “Pro who?” (laughs)  
 
He said, “You have to explain everything that you just said to me, you have to put in 
writing and explain why it’s going to work.” And so I did. I learned what a pro forma statement 
was. And that is simply that you write down what the current cost is that you’re paying, and what 
the new tool will allow you to do, and what the new cost will be, and the difference there is what 
I can use to pay my debt back. So it’s all again, it goes back to the volume idea.  
So as soon as I could do that, then I could drop my price a little bit more and I could get 
more garbage stops. So volume created opportunity throughout my career. It has done that with 
the first garbage truck. It then presented, as growth was happening, the hardship was that we 
were driving 11 trips a day. I got to a point where we were driving 11 loads a day to Albany to 
dump. Or Clifton Park. And I said, there’s got to be a better way. I mean, the amount of fuel that 
we were burning and the employees that I was hiring to run these loads. And the scheduling was 
just a nightmare. And again, the hardship and dealing in the parameters of the law.  
So one thing I would do is I got a small roll off truck, because contractors asked me to do 
roll off work. And I would do the roll offs at night. Well, a competitor turned me into the state 
and come to find out that there is a law that says that you cannot set a roll off down and pick a 
roll off back up the next day to go to the dump. So it has to stay on the truck. So I had gotten big 
enough where I caught the attention of other competitors, and they were more than happy to 
make sure that I followed the letter of the law. So between the fact that I couldn’t set a roll off 
down and I couldn’t pick it back up later to dump, and the fact that we were driving 11 trips a 
day, I said, I need a transfer station. 
So transfer station is just what it sounds like. It’s a building, you come in, you dump on a 
special concrete floor that collects any juices that come out of the loads into a tank to be pumped. 
And then it gets loaded onto a tractor trailer. The whole point of a transfer station, the major 
point, is to consolidate loads. So instead of running five and six-ton loads, you’re running a 30-
ton load. So it’s trucking savings. But what it also does is give you a little taste of what it’s like 
to recycle. 
And so on roll off containers, when we would dump, it was really exciting to pick out the 
goodies. Every garbage man always had a pile of goodies. (laughs) Goodies being things, every 
apartment and house I had, and I think to this day I still have some items in my house that have 
been picked out of the garbage. Or TVs, and all kinds of stuff you would get. So I started to 
recycle more metal. I was able to pull out appliances from the load. Because I wasn’t dumping 
right at the landfill anymore. I was dumping at my own place. And you’d spread out the load and 
you’d be able to pick these things out. 
So that was another big volume decision. That was a really big expansion to put this 
transfer station that we’re in. It was also another lesson in dealing with the public. It took four 
and a half years. It was an extremely contentious fight to get a transfer station permitted. It was 
emotionally really hard on me and a lot of the staff, because people have this way of being really 
nasty when they don’t want something. So it became attacks, personal attacks, when the rules 
weren’t on the not-in-my-backyarder’s side, they would then become attacking on a personal 
side. I learned a lot about people. And I learned, I had some great advice one night when I was 
literally, got out of a meeting. And I never lost my cool at a meeting. But I would go out of the 
meeting and my attorney said, “You did a good job.”  
6 
 
And I would have tears coming down my face, I was so upset. Because I said, “It’s not 
fair what they’re doing. There’s not going to be a dirty bomb in Albany and have the material 
come to Shaftsbury. We’re not going to have radioactive waste coming out of the trucks.” And 
this is what we were fending off. “And my family are not bad people. And it’s not my garbage. I 
make one bag of garbage a week. It’s the community’s garbage. Why do they hate me so much?” 
And he said, he goes, “You need to grow up. And you need to keep your eyes on the 
prize. And the eye on the prize is that you are going to get this, and you are going to succeed.” 
And it was great, good hard lesson in perseverance. And I shook it off. And I was proud that I 
never lost my cool on any of the people. (laughs) I think it served me well. And I think that I 
gained respect in the industry. 
So four and a half years later, after three appeals to the environmental court, which we 
then went to mediation. And after five sessions of mediation, which were, again, very 
contentious, the mediator came back in the room and said, “The appealing party wants a buyout. 
Would you entertain a buyout?” 
And I said, “So now we’re finally figuring out where we’re at.” I said, “How much does 
he want for his property? It’s assessed for $60,000.” He said he wants a million dollars. And I 
said, “Okay. So now at least we know what this is about.” So it was extortion. (laughs) So I 
learned another great lesson. 
So in the end, the property was negotiated down to $300,000. Because again, my attorney 
advised me that on any given day, any given judge can rule in any given way. And you can move 
on with your business, you can move on with your life, with a fixed amount of a known thing 
that you can move forward business-wise. So, great advice. He was right. We purchased it. And 
at this point, we now have almost 40 trucks. And it worked out to be a fantastic parking lot. So I 
would have needed the land anyway. So. (laughs) What’s the saying, everything’s good that ends 
well? Or something like that. So that kind of cleared the runway for great growth. Because I had 
the transfer station. Again, I could drop the price more. We were competing very well against the 
national company that was in the area. 
I’m trying to think of other good stories. A lot of fumbles along the way. I can remember 
when I first started and I wanted to do more recycling. So I said, I’m going to save up. Again, 
everything in my mind was volume, volume, volume. So I said, I’m going to save up my 
cardboard. I’m going to do my cardboard route and I’m going to buy an old box trailer. And I 
would stack the cardboard in there so nicely. And I had it all stacked in there. I said, I know that 
the cardboard market is going to pay for the baler. I wanted to buy a baler. So I said, as soon as 
it’s full, I’ll then bale all that cardboard, sell it, and pay for my baler. So I went to do that, and I 
filled it completely. And I went to buy the baler. And I bought the baler. But the price of 
cardboard went from 200 a ton to 80 a ton. (laughs) And then when I started to take the 
cardboard out to bale it, lo and behold, rats really like to nest in cardboard. So it was all spoiled. 
It was all bad. There’s no way that I could have done it because it had yellowed so much and 
become brittle. So I had to pay to get rid of all the cardboard, and it was an epic failure. 
I also had a great idea that I was going to save all the Maine five cent returns. Because 
Vermont is only—I’m sorry. So the Maine [has a deposit on] noncarbonated water bottles. So I 
would save all these water bottles. I was so excited to go on vacation to Maine and have it paid 
for. And I was going to take the garbage truck. So I had this whole barn filled up with all these 
things. And I was like, well, I should let the person know that I’m coming, because it’s a lot of 
money they’re going to owe me. It was like $800 in five-centers. So I call. They’re like, “Yeah, 
no problem. Thanks for the heads-up. Just make sure you have your Maine ID with you.” 
7 
 
And I said, “What? I don’t have a Maine ID. I’m in Vermont.” 
They said, “Well, where do the bottles come from?” 
I said, “Vermont.” Proud as a peach. (laughs)  
They said, “Well, then you can’t bring them to Maine. They never got paid.” So I learned 
how the deposit system works. You have to pay in before you can get it back out. So I loaded up 
all the bags of bottles and brought them back to the recycling center. (laughs) So I don’t want in 
any way that this interview comes off that I know everything. Because I have made a lot of really 
good mistakes along the way. (laughter) So. 
 
00:24:28 
 
Nickerson:  I’m sorry. Was there some place you wanted to go? 
 
Mance:  Please, corral me. 
 
Nickerson:  Well, I want to hear more about how you started a MRF [Materials Recovery 
Facility] . 
 
Mance:  Okay. Volume. So here we were. Albeit we were loading trailers and we were taking 
trailers to Albany [NY], which is where the local MRF was, about an hour, 20 minutes away. But 
I looked at that volume and I said, why? Why are we doing this? So many loads. All this revenue 
was going to someplace else. We have recycling. We should figure out how to process it here. It 
would be a great marketing ability to say that “we’re your processor, we’re your waste hauler, 
we’re your recycler, and by the way, we can create jobs.” 
 
00:25:17 
 
Nickerson:  What year was this? 
 
Mance:  This was, we’ve been open in Pownal for three years. So this was about four or five 
years ago that I started contemplating this. 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. And were the communities still separating out 13 things? 
 
Mance:  No. So dual stream, the progression of recycling was that it went from like the 13 
separations down to basically two. So, glass, plastic, tin in one, and aluminum. And then in the 
second, all your fibers. So, newspaper, magazines, junk mail, cardboard, box board. So, dual 
stream. And I actually am a fan of dual stream at any transfer station. And the reason being is 
that there always has to be kind of a cost benefit analysis of labor input, hauling and value of the 
end commodity. So at a transfer station where the residents frankly are doing all the work for 
you, why wouldn’t you want the best, you want—and I guess on the other side, to back up a 
second, is the convenience factor. And convenience hopefully translates into better participation. 
We Americans like things to be easier. So that’s how we improve our participation, historically. 
So dual stream, you get the most value with a kind of a middle of the road convenience thing. 
It’s not the 13 separations, it’s not [source] separated like you see some places still do that. But 
it’s not single stream where you’re smashing glass into fiber and you’re downgrading your 
8 
 
product. I always say, if it looks like a duck, act like a duck, it’s a duck. And if it looks like 
garbage and acts like garbage, you have a hard time making it into recycling.  
And that’s why—so, to talk out of both sides of my mouth, as every good business owner 
does—dual stream at transfer stations. But I’m a proponent of single stream on the hauling side. 
So on our hauling company, I can’t send out those antiquated recycling trucks with all the bins in 
the side of them, and then they go up and dump, and you watch the guy doing the separating at 
the side of the road. And it’s just like oh my gosh, the stop count back then was 50 to 70 stops a 
day. And our expectation out of the drivers now is two to 350, sometimes 500 stops a day in the 
automated trucks. So we have to be as efficient as possible. So there can be no sorting with a 
truck driver, and we cannot run two trucks. Our whole motto is one truck, one pass. Trucks are 
too expensive, diesel is too expensive, labor is so hard to find. So that’s why I’m a big proponent 
of single stream on the hauling side. 
So, again, volume-based decision. We had recycling. We wanted to grow the business. I 
found a defunct property. My dad’s actually a surveyor. And he was surveying up on a hill. And 
he called me one day and he said, “Have you ever looked at that old former Northeast Wood 
Products building? The old sawmill that went bankrupt.” 
I said, “No. Why?” 
He goes, “Well, it’s got a rail spur. And it’s a big building. And it’s all overgrown. 
Maybe I could do some research. I’ll tell you who owns it.” 
So he did. And he told me the business owner. He had bought it to actually do a pellet 
mill and then decided the market wasn’t right. So I contacted him. Three months later, we had a 
purchase of the property. And so why I liked it is the rail spur that I could put my waste on rail to 
kind of get me out of this local market for disposal. It also had a huge building on it that the price 
that I bought the property for was a deal. Because of what it had for infrastructure. And thirdly, 
we had hit a point with T.A.M. Inc. that we had gotten a lot of the market and we were struggling 
to remain profitable without a new spot to grow. So growth has always helped with mitigating 
cost increases, whether it be labor or fuel or disposal. So growth, growth, growth is kind of how 
we’ve been able to survive. So I was getting nervous because we had so much market share that 
we needed a new pond to be a small fish in again.  
So the Pownal MRF is right on the Massachusetts line. So Massachusetts has, in that one 
county, in Berkshire County, there’s 180,000 in population. And then within an hour of Pownal, 
there’s about a million population. Because you get into Albany, Schenectady, Troy. And so it’s 
ten minutes to the New York border. It’s a minute and a half to the Mass border. So it seemed 
like a really good strategic location to site a transfer station as well. In an area that we could 
build a hauling company, transfer station, and MRF. So that’s what we did. We bought that. We 
permitted a very large transfer station. It’s permitted for 70,000 tons. To put it into perspective, 
the four and a half year fight that I had to get Shaftsbury’s permitted, I applied for 15,000 tons, 
they only granted me eight to see how I would do. And see if I could walk before I ran. In 
Pownal, it was a six-month process and they actually gave me a small grant to come there. And I 
was approved for 70,000 tons in six months. So the other takeaway here is, I’m glad I never lost 
my cool. I’m glad that I had history to go off of. I was proud of the fact that I had never had a 
violation at our transfer station. And in small towns, character means something. So that was, it 
helped regain a lot of what I had lost through the first process. (laughs)  
 
 
 
9 
 
00:31:36 
 
Nickerson:  So I have a bunch of questions about this. So you see New York and Massachusetts 
as potential customer base? Are there regulatory issues in terms of doing that? 
 
Mance:  Yes. Great question. I see that Vermont suffers with low population. And therefore, low 
volume. Which the moral of my growth and my success, as I keep saying, is volume-based. So I 
need, I need to import volume from other states. I love the state of Vermont. I love being in 
business here. I want to stay here. So we need to, we need to capitalize on that. 
 
Now, the question of are there interstate waste laws or regulations that create a problem? 
A little bit. But it’s more that Vermont is the problem than it is that Mass or New York is the 
problem. So there is a big issue that we’ve tried to work with the legislature to fix, but the 
lobbyists have shot that down. And that is that Vermont DEC has historically been funded by 
what they call a franchise tax. Franchise tax is six dollars per ton. And to fund DEC, way back, 
many years ago, they said this is how many tons we have in the state of Vermont, this is the 
amount we need to generate to fund Department of Environmental Conservation. Here’s how 
much we’re going to charge per ton. So it didn’t matter if you buried garbage in the state of 
Vermont or if you took it outside the state of Vermont to be buried, everybody had to pay the six 
dollars per ton. 
 
As time has gone on, there’s been some interesting changes. And we are kind of the 
lightning rod for that. And that is because we sited a large transfer station on a border, relying 
upon out of state waste. So what happens is, any of the Massachusetts or New York waste that 
comes into Vermont gets dumped. It can’t be buried, because Vermont regulates that you cannot 
bury out of state waste in state. We have to then take it back out of state. And all of this happens 
within hours, because we can’t have any garbage on the floor at night. So Massachusetts waste 
comes in. It gets dumped. We pay. And then it gets loaded within half an hour, and out it goes. 
And for every one of those trailers, the state of Vermont gets paid two or 250 dollars in tax 
revenue. So they get 75 cent transfer tax to regulate our transfer station, and then they get a six 
dollar excise tax, or franchise tax.  
And they wholly admit that that was never the intention. They looked at the volume in 
state but they also really enjoy the fact that we pay somewhere around $180,000 in taxes a year. 
(laughs)  
And the other thing that happens is that my large, national competitors don’t want that 
waste flowing into our transfer station. They want to keep it in the channels that it is in now. So 
they are lobbying against any kind of change to the franchise fee. So Massachusetts has no 
problem with the garbage leaving their state. New York has no problem accepting the garbage. 
There’s no tax. They like the disposal revenue that is generated for the landfill businesses or 
incinerator businesses.  
So certainly difficult little intricacies. Like for example, in Mass, you have to have a 
hauler permit from the Department of Health for every town that you drive through. So if I want 
to pick up garbage three towns into Massachusetts, I need to have a hauler’s license from the 
Department of Health for every town along the way. So we have a myriad of permits. Mary Beth, 
our general manager, probably handles 60 to 70 permits between hauler permits in Vermont, 
town permits now in Vermont, town permits in Mass. New York county permits and then state 
permits. So it’s very regulated. But I’ve got a great team of people that take care of all that, 
thankfully. (laughs)  
10 
 
 
00:35:57 
 
Nickerson:  Wow. And you said that when you were first thinking about the MRF, that you were 
hoping it would help create jobs? 
 
Mance:  Yes. So the MRF, this interview is done in 2019. The MRF created, we hoped that it 
would create profit, and we hoped that it would create jobs. It has done the second. (laughs) In 
2019, it is a very bad recycling market. So I am super proud of the team that we have there. 
We’ve got about, it’s between seven and ten. Actually, no, it’s ten. We have seven line guys, two 
out back, nine, ten, eleven. A plant manager and a scale house attendant. So we’ve got it right 
around ten. And they do a fantastic job. We’ve gone through quite a bit of turnover to find the 
right people. But we’re so happy. We’ve got a crew now that’s been there anywhere from the 
three years, some of the original people. And now we’ve settled into probably six months to ten 
months of a crew that is very happy and doing a great job. Very hard workers. It does not matter, 
anybody in this industry, it doesn’t matter if it’s 105 degrees or if it’s 5, 15, 20 below, they’re out 
there. We go out when nobody else, the school buses don’t go, because it’s too dangerous. Well, 
the garbage guys are still out there. And they just work hard. Dusty environment, smelly 
environment. It’s kind of neat.  
In the last ten years, the blue collar craze has happened with the coming on of Dirty Jobs 
[television show about people in dirty industries]. And Mike Rowe [host of Dirty Jobs] has kind 
of highlighted what we do in the blue collar world. And the value of it. And I’m so happy to 
watch any Dirty Jobs show, because it shines a light on what we don’t even, as average people, 
don’t know what happens to make civilization work. And whether it be cleaning out the leachate 
tank from the transfer station, or shoveling out the back of the packer truck because all this 
spoogy stuff makes it up and over that blade, and you have to clean it out or else it starts to take 
out hydraulic lines. So anyone that’s spent a half an hour chiseling out all the nasty stuff in a 
packer truck understands what I’m talking about. But the other 99.9 percent of the world has no 
idea.  
 
And the same thing with the MRF. To get in there, the infeed conveyor. All the glass and 
the sharps and needles and things fall down in the little tiny cracks. And you’ve got to get out 
there and clean that out. And you’re chiseling away and shoveling it out. And any food residuals 
always seems to make it down in those cracks. So it’s full of maggots. It’s full of juice that you 
don’t want to be around. And it’s a hard job for not what we wish that we could pay folks. 
Because we do have such competition from overseas and from everywhere. So, yeah, it did 
create a lot of jobs. In this market where recycling is, unfortunately it is not a profitable 
endeavor. But it is one that we’re going to stay the course.  
And historically, recycling peaks and troughs. It’s a little bit different this time because 
it’s dropped and it’s been flat for like six months of being down. And even in 2008, when we had 
the great recession, we saw a plummet of recycling prices. It was a very steep drop. But it came 
back as soon as the economy recovered. In 2018-’19, we’ve been in a, basically in a 
synchronized global expansion. So there’s no lack of demand globally for it. But yet the prices 
have plummeted. Which means that it could be either a really long cycle, or maybe there is 
definitely a larger crisis afoot. So. Those that are listening to this in five years, I hope that we can 
say that it was a blip. (laughs)  
 
11 
 
 
00:40:19 
 
Nickerson:  You said we’re in a global expansion. What would you attribute the dip in the— 
 
Mance:  So this is one humble garbage man’s opinion. I think that what happened, China has 
implemented a series of restrictions. So we had Operation Green Fence in 2008-2009. And we 
had Operation National Sword. And then Blue Sky Initiative and each one of those kind of 
clamped down on what they said they would accept. And sad to say, we as Americans really got 
punch drunk on the whole single stream idea. And we were sending material that had no business 
to be recycled as recycling. So we took advantage of the system. And there’s a lot of MRFs, and 
a lot of really bad material that went out to be recycled. And China said no, we’re not taking it. 
So that was kind of like the Operation Green Fence. That was the first time that it kind of like, 
whoa, we’ve got to be careful. We can’t just send this away. (laughs) You know, we throw 
things away. We throw things away. And now we recycle things away, and nobody knows where 
that is. And then we saw the 60 Minutes things on where recycling goes, and some of the e-waste 
and how that is just horrific, how we don’t really look at the end of that away cycle. So that was 
fine. And it had brought contamination levels down. Where the concern is that I see is that the 
contamination has gotten much better. And I think that what China is experiencing is they’re 
starting, their economy is starting to contract. And they’re starting to slow down. And they went 
through that huge industrialization phase and modernization phase. So they needed a lot of raw 
materials to do that. But now that they’ve kind of got things up and running, they’re becoming a 
circular waste management system. So they’re recycling their own fibers. Because it’s in the 
system, and they’re not trying to do this huge expansion for billions of people. So I think China’s 
taking more environmental conscious steps. They’re doing their own recycling. The economy 
there is slowing down a little bit. And they’re not building like crazy. So I think that China is 
done. At least for a while. They’re saying that it’s contamination-driven, and that’s why they 
have these initiatives. But I don't think that’s the case.  
 
On the other hand, there’s been some big investment by Nine Dragons, which is a paper 
company, the largest paper company in China. And what’s really neat right now emerging is that 
they have bought a lot of paper mills in the US. And they are pulping in the US and making it 
into fiber, drying it, baling it, and sending the fiber to China. That’s kind of a bright spot in the 
idea that maybe they do need the material, that they just want to try to fix the issue before it 
comes to China shores. So those that listen to this in the future, hopefully that is what has 
happened. (laughs)  
 
00:43:39 
 
Nickerson:  Interesting. And how does your compost operation, you started composting. Can you 
tell me about that? 
 
Mance:  Yes. Sure. We’ve skipped over composting. Composting was in between Shaftsbury 
[starting the trash route and first transfer station] and Pownal [building the MRF]. So again, it 
was one of those ah-ha moments where I was on the solar kick. So that’s how you start a 
composting yard. You get on to solar. (laughs) So I was on the solar kick and I thought, I really 
want to do something. We in the waste industry suffer with bad PR all the time. There’s always 
12 
 
some catastrophe and it’s blamed on the haulers. But at the end of the day, we are probably the 
biggest environmentalists, because we have the most influence over what happens. And that’s 
how I feel, at least. So I was excited to do a new environmental initiative. And I looked at the 
transfer station, I looked at this wall of nice southern-facing exposure behind us on the hillside. 
And I said, let’s do solar panels. 
 
So lo and behold, the only way solar worked five, six, seven years ago, and even now, is 
that you actually have to make money to be able to use tax credits. So it has not proven to be a 
super-lucrative industry. So we didn’t have enough tax appetite to make solar work. But then, I 
was dumping a Price Chopper, now called Market 32, I always look towards the future, right? 
Like as Price Chopper phases out, nobody [listening to this i]’s going to know what that was. 
(laughs) So it’s a supermarket. And when I was dumping the compactor, and I was dumping 12 
tons of food waste, primarily, probably 80, 90 percent of food waste, and it was splashing all 
over the floor and the smell and everything else. And I said gosh, there’s got to be a better way. 
Why are we paying all this money? Because with 80, 90-dollar a ton tip fees—tip fee is the cost 
to get rid of the garbage-on a 10, 12-ton box, you’re talking about a thousand to $1500 dollar 
loads of material that are just going into the landfill. So I said geez, I’ve got the opportunity 
maybe to do this same image improvement and stay within my industry. I think composting is 
really cool.  
So when I was looking at the numbers, one of the statistics that really grabbed me was for 
every five-gallon bucket of food waste that you compost, it has the same offset of emissions as 
burning one gallon of gas. So I couldn’t resist doing the calculation and figuring out how many 
gallons of diesel we burn, and how many, albeit this is a rough calculation, I’m no scientist to 
say gas or diesel has more emissions, but very rudimentary garbage man style, I figured out that I 
could offset all of my diesel fuel consumption by composting—and I forget what the number 
was now—a reasonable amount of food waste. So I said, that’s what we’ve got to do. We need to 
do a compost yard. 
So I started that process. Again, this being in the middle of the Shaftsbury to Pownal. 
And that went really bad. Really bad. (laughs) So I wanted to do a small compost yard on family-
owned land. We have 120 acres of fields. And the influence from out-of-staters that had moved 
in to say “not in my backyard” was horrendous. In fact, that fight went to Montpelier. And there 
was lobbying to change laws on composting. And it was affecting not just my company, but the 
state in general. And it was the only thing that I gave up on in my career. I said nope, it’s not 
worth it. It was never going to be—I never wanted it, expected it, to be a profit center. It was 
purely something that I was passionate about, and I thought that it could make a difference in the 
environment. But I don't think anybody gets into composting and says this is going to be a great, 
money-making thing. (laughs)  
So I did choose the path of least resistance there. And I said, I am not going to fight this 
fight. It was really contentious, really—to the point one meeting where there was a shove, a 
physical altercation where somebody wanted to physically fist fight over it. And I just walked 
away and I said this is not, it’s not for me. 
So, fate rang my phone. And the town of Bennington, one of the powers to be at 
Bennington called and said, “Hey, we see you’re having trouble with a composting yard.” I said 
yes. They said, “Well, we like this idea. We have land behind our transfer station. Would you be 
interested in looking at it?” 
I said, “Sure. Fair warning. I can’t afford to pay much.”  
And they said, “How about a dollar a year?” 
13 
 
I said, “That, I can afford.” 
So the town of Bennington stepped up. And I went to meet with them. We found a 
suitable few-acre chunk of land that was not being used of anything. And I had a one dollar a 
year lease for the first five years. And then after five years, now I pay what the taxes would be on 
the property if it were privately owned. So, it was great. And I’m happy that we’re there and not 
in a farm field. It was a great story of when you think that you can’t make anything happen, 
suddenly fate drops a phone call in your lap. So that’s how we started composting. 
And so I learned a lot in composting. I went at it with the highest, that’s not the right 
word. I went at it with high hopes of making the absolute best compost that you could make. So 
we went in and we started a certified for organic use compost yard. I wanted to differentiate 
myself. Composted for a year before we could sell anything. We sold stuff. And we did really 
well. And we found that there’s a small market for high-end compost. But the idea of waiting a 
year to get paid is untenable. So I said, okay, I need to get paid sooner.  
So I went out and looked for paying feed stocks. So interestingly, we are the composter 
for all the US currency. So when you make money— 
 
00:50:25 
 
Nickerson:  All of it, in the whole country? 
 
Mance:  All of it in the whole country. 
 
Nickerson:  No way! 
 
Mance:  Yeah, it’s true. It’s true. So all US currency is made in Dalton, Massachusetts at Crane 
Company. Crane Company takes in, and they like to peg themselves as the original recycler. This 
is what’s so cool. So they take cotton, blue jeans and things of such, and they grind it up. It’s 
similar to making paper, where you grind up the fibers and then you run them through a screen. 
And there’s long fibers that get caught and are used in the currency. And then there’s short 
fibers, just like short paper fibers in paper making, that fall through and don’t make the grade. So 
those short cotton fiber, and flax, there’s flax in money as well, that goes to a sewer treatment 
plant. There’s no sewer in it, but it is the best way to destroy any secret stuff in currency. So we 
get short cotton fiber. It’s crumbly. And we compost it. And we compost a lot of it. Like a 30-
yard roll off is 22 feet long, five feet tall and eight feet wide. And we compost three of those 
every day. So it’s a lot of volume. 
 
So now we’re really busy at the compost yard. And it does make really good soil. 
 
00:51:52 
 
Nickerson:  Does that count as carbon? 
 
Mance:  It is higher nitrogen. It’s actually really, yeah. And it comes in smelly, because it’s 
biologically active. It’s got bugs that are kind of working at it. So it’s a difficult product to 
manage the odor on. Think of leaving your clothes in the washing machine for like a week and a 
half wet. And that smell that you get, it’s just like, oh, yeah, not good. So we mix it similarly, but 
with a lot more wood chips. We used a forced air system. So we have aerated static piles, it’s 
14 
 
called. And then we have decided that topsoil is a product that there’s a lot more market for than 
certified for organic use compost. So now we make a lot of material. We struggle with not being 
able to sell it all. We are working hard with the state to try to create more markets. Composting 
world, while we have the coming of Act 148, which then got converted to the Universal 
Recycling Law in Vermont, great law, love it. Unfortunately, we’re kind of going the way of 
dairy farmers, where when the price of milk drops, you milk more cows. (laughs) And when the 
price of milk drops again, you milk more cows. So compost is kind of going that way, where 
now we’ve got an inflated supply, and the demand is not there. So it has not changed. So demand 
is going up a little bit. But with all this new food waste, tons of compost has hit the market. So 
the price is dropping and we’re dropping to try to get rid of the materials so we don’t have 
stockpiles. And it hasn’t equalized. I hope that changes in the next few years. 
 
00:53:40 
 
Nickerson:  Are there lessons that you’ve learned about handling organics, either in terms of 
your operation or in terms of Act 148? 
 
Mance:  Tons of lessons. Tons and tons of lessons. 
 
00:53:57 
 
Nickerson:  What would you say are like the top couple of lessons? 
 
Mance:  So, top couple lessons, getting paid for feedstocks upfront was critical to trying to 
balance the budget there. That was a big learning curve where you can’t wait till the end and then 
sell the product at a high price. You have to get paid upfront to pay your payroll, pay the fuel, 
pay the loader payments. So that was a good lesson. Another good lesson is contamination, what 
I really like is that we use technology now to help with contamination issues. So by that I mean 
that we’re in a good spot because we are both the hauler, we are the composter, and I like to be 
the educator. I take a sales approach of getting to know the customer, and I love figuring out 
logistics, so I’m very active in setting up new customers. When I do sales work and we take 
stops, what I’m selling is the idea that we can provide a start to finish service for folks. So when 
we set up a new food customer, we have meetings where we go over expectations. And then the 
drivers all have iPhones that we can take pictures of contamination, which goes to our organics 
guy, which goes back to the customer, all within a half an hour of when they pick up. And we 
found that that’s been very successful. Because a lot of the times, the folks that we deal with on 
the administrative level don’t really know what got into their can or how it got in there. Or what 
it was. So you can’t be a composter and have a load of ten tons of food waste show up and it’s 
got broken glass in it and say, the load’s rejected. You need to get it to the driver, and the driver 
needs to inspect. But the driver’s not going to care as much if it’s going to a different company to 
get rid of. It’s kind of like the recycling. You know, that disconnect of I’m just going to ship it to 
China. Let them figure out what to do with it when they open up the sea box. And so the idea 
that we all are vested in the process, I think, makes a big difference. 
 
And the same thing we’re trying to do with recycling. We’re trying to now show folks 
like look, it’s us that deal with it. And Bennington College is one of our clients. And I love doing 
talks for the college kids. And sadly, I’ve phased out of that route. But up until a few years ago I 
15 
 
was still doing the route. And I would say to them, I would go and I’d raise my hands and say, 
“These are the hands that have to deal with the chicken soup that you dump in the recycling bin. 
It’s not fair. It’s not acceptable that you don’t care enough about me that you dump chicken soup 
in the recycling bin and that you don’t remove your cigarette butts or your chew spit in the Pepsi 
bottle or whatever it is. Like have some respect for the people that deal with your stuff.” 
 
And the first time I gave the speech, I kind of got—the administrative people were like, 
uh, uh—and I would give them blunt advice. I’d say, “Look. It’s not enough to have a bumper 
sticker on the back of your car, Save the Earth. All you did, if that’s as far as you take it, is you 
made more plastic waste. You need to participate in environmental stewardship, not just talk 
about it. So when you make those decisions, when you look at the can, you need to care enough 
about the person that’s dealing with it and you need to care enough about the environment to just 
put a little bit of effort in.”  
And composting, again, is a great tool. The first compost stop I set up, before we even 
had a compost yard, I said, I’m going to go after Burger King. If I can get fast food people to do 
it, I can get anybody to do it. And the talk that I gave was, “Guys, I’m going to give you an 
opportunity. We all see the pictures of the bears floating on icebergs 500 miles from Alaska. We 
all see that the environment is changing, and we all would like to do something about it. But we 
all can’t afford Priuses, and we all can’t afford solar panels on our house. So what I’m asking of 
you, my ask for you to make a difference, is to look at these two cans and to care enough to keep 
the contamination out and to scrape the food waste into this one, and the garbage into this one. 
We still have to get it out to the dumpster or the food waste cart—there’s no more work there—
it’s just the conscious decision to care enough to do it.”  
And the overwhelming, they were like, we totally agree with you. We would love to 
make a change. You’re right. We can’t afford to do all these things. We can’t afford to buy a new 
vehicle that’s more fuel-efficient. We can’t afford to put heat pumps in our house. But yeah, 
we’re onboard. We can do it. 
What I learned from that is fast food is actually one of the easier places to do it. Because 
fast food, the restaurants are so programmed on how they do what they do so efficiently, that if 
you change it, and you integrate that into the prep or the back end, they follow it. Because 
they’re so good at following procedures.  
Now we find that the hardest places are vacation places. When people go on vacation, 
they like to be on vacation from everything. And they don’t want to think at the ski area about 
doing anything different. They don’t want to hear the new rules when they come here. They 
came here to play. They came to Vermont to have fun. They left all the rules at home.  
So that and colleges are tough. Again, because it’s an ever-changing population. So we 
get the juniors and seniors all onboard. But lo and behold, the senior this year is no longer here 
next year. We’ve got a new class of freshmen that are coming that have to be educated. So that’s 
a challenging area for us. So, yeah. 
 
01:00:08 
 
Nickerson:  So I neglected to bring a watch in with me. I want to be mindful of your time. How 
are you doing? 
 
Mance:  12:04. We’re good. 
 
16 
 
Nickerson:  Okay. You have time for a few more questions? 
 
Mance:  Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  All right. So I’m going to shift a little bit. What are, you said that’s challenging, 
some classes of customers, like college students, you get them trained and then they move on. 
 
Mance:  Mm hmm. 
 
Nickerson:  What are some of the other things that are like—well, actually, I’m going to go back 
and ask you a different question. You said that you had to give up the Bennington College route. 
Are you still doing trash pickup yourself? 
 
Mance:  So current events of T.A.M., so T.A.M. now, we have almost 70 employees. We do 
have the three different divisions. We run about 40 trucks on the road. So I am stuck most of the 
time behind my desk or visiting clients. What I refuse to give up, because I enjoy too much, is 
the demolition work. So I still drive a roll off truck, and I still tear down buildings. I like the 
challenge of it. I like to figure out how to do things that seem impossible. (laughs) So I miss my 
days on the garbage truck. I really wish that I could. But with the garbage routes, you have to 
pick up at a certain time. And unfortunately, I have to keep the flexibility of not being tied down 
to that route. But I long for the days of going home physically exhausted instead of mentally 
exhausted. (laughs) You sleep better when you’re physically exhausted. 
 
Nickerson:  All right. So keeping in mind that you’ve been doing this for a couple of decades— 
 
Mance:  Yes. 
 
Nickerson:  And that you’ve worn lots of different hats, you can answer this, the next few 
questions any way that you think— 
 
01:02:6 
 
[End Track 1. Begin Track 2.] 
 
00:00:00 
 
Nickerson:  --about any hat that you’ve worn. But what are your least favorite or most 
challenging parts of the job for you? 
 
Mance:  Least favorite. See, I’m not a negative person. I’m way happier talking about the 
positive things.  
 
Nickerson:  I’ll ask you that question. 
 
Mance:  We’ll get there. 
 
17 
 
Nickerson:  What’s the most challenging part? 
 
Mance:  So the most challenging part. It would have to be, it would have to be, there’s a lot of 
challenging parts. So the finances of running a small business are always a challenge. I think that 
anybody that’s a small businessperson can relate to the idea that you always feel like you have 
wolves at your back. You always wonder "Am I going to succeed this quarter, this year?" Am I 
going to make the numbers that the bank needs to see before they start calling in loans and stuff? 
I find that, so the easy answer is the money. You always worry about that hat that I wear.  
 
Employees. Human resource part of my job is very difficult for me. The emotion of being 
the employer of 70 people that have families. The stress of making what I can see is the correct 
business decision. I find it liberating, to some degree. And when I have to have hard talks, it’s 
based on that. And I’ve gotten used to, I don’t accept it, but I’ve gotten used to the idea that that 
has to happen. But it doesn’t make it easier at the end of the day when you go home and you 
know that while it was the right financial decision, it was not a decision that others can 
understand. Because as a business owner, you’re only allowed to share a little bit to what goes on 
with people, because you don’t have time to talk about the whole big picture. There’s just not 
enough time in the day. 
 
Regulation. Regulation is another huge thing that we try our darnedest. We have a safety 
compliance officer now. We have so many things that we have tried to implement to make sure 
that not only are we following every law, but that we are being as safe as we possibly can. But I, 
just about a month ago I got a call at five o’clock in the morning. And the MRF that we used to 
go to in Albany had a fatality. There was a gentleman that was sucked up a conveyor and he 
went through the glass breaker. I responded to the text and I said, “Please tell me he’s okay.” 
And my response, and I’m sorry for how blunt this is, but the response from the text was, “He’s 
in two-inch pieces.” So like that actually makes me really emotional to even talk about that. So 
my fear of that does weigh hard on this operation. You know, there was a, Casella sadly had a 
fatality in Saint Alban’s this past summer. Myers Waste has had a fatality. So the responsibility 
of making sure that I do everything that I possibly can to do [avoid] that. And of course, again, 
with all those other wolves behind you, those are the things that I don’t like. 
 
I still, to this day, 23 years later, love the customers. I love the career. I love the impact 
that we make. I still get, like a kid on Christmas, when I see a pile of compost, a pile of baled 
cardboard. It’s not a lot, luckily I don’t need a lot of positive reinforcement. Because there’s not 
a lot of people that call up and like, “Thanks so much for picking up my garbage today. Like that 
was awesome you guys showed up.” (laughs) We get them occasionally, and thanking the driver. 
And we’re quick to distribute them via email to the whole office. Like hey, look at this! 
Somebody acknowledged what we do! So accolades is not something that we need around here 
too much, because it’s a good thing, we don’t get them. But yeah, I still do love that part of my 
job. 
 
00:04:45 
 
Nickerson:  And what are you the most proud of? 
 
Mance:  The most proud of. I’m really proud of the people I work with. The long-term 
employees. I’m appreciative of everybody that works here. But I am so proud of some of the 
people that have started that we have made an incredible transformation. That we started off as—
18 
 
I want to say common people that didn’t have a clue of what we were getting into. (laughs) And 
the adaptation of taking a company from zero to over 12 million dollars a year in sales. And that, 
and along the way staying friends. I’ve got some really close friends that are here that have done 
this trip with me. And that’s really fun. 
 
But I also am proud of those piles of compost and those piles of cardboard stuff. (laughs) 
But the human element of it, when it works, is so rewarding. 
 
00:06:00 
 
Nickerson:  I’ve got a couple more questions. 
 
Mance:  Sure. 
 
Nickerson:  They want them in the career profiles book. You’ve got time for that? 
 
Mance:  Sure. Oh, yeah. 
 
Nickerson:  So thinking about a young person who might want to get into this field, what would 
you say are special knowledge or skills or training that they should think about? 
 
Mance:  Wow. So I was going to answer your question with just yes. Just do it. Just do it. There 
is so many, and I don't know other industries that well. My pedigree is my father is a land 
surveyor and forester and my mother’s a schoolteacher. So I don’t have, I understand forestry 
pretty well because of my father. I can tell you that my opinion of the waste and recycling 
industry is that it is extremely dynamic and extremely diverse. Maybe other industries are that 
way. I don't know. But I can tell you that if what gets you excited to go to work is to operate 
equipment, we have that. If you are excited to interact with people in a meaningful way, we have 
that. If you are excited to do finance, we certainly have that. If you’re excited to do policy for 
government, that’s a huge part of our industry. Anybody that goes into that, I would suggest that 
they spend some time working their way up to that. I think that unfortunately there’s a 
disconnect between policy makers and those that have some scars on their hands.  
But it is such a diverse industry. And it’s a very fast-paced industry. I said it earlier. The 
only thing constant is change in the garbage world. And it changes so fast. We talked before we 
even got on the mike about how it is a transformative time. But I would question you back, like 
when hasn’t there been like this crazy shift in what’s going on with waste and recycling? 
(laughs) I mean, you have to be able to change quickly. So unless you have maybe like the 
finance side of it, which numbers are always going to be numbers, you want to enjoy fast pace, 
you want to enjoy change, and you want to enjoy reinventing yourself many times over. Because 
it is not a career that you get into and spend thirty years doing the same thing. 
 
00:08:45 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. And again, for a young person considering this job path, do you feel like 
starting out in solid waste provides a livable wage? 
 
19 
 
Mance:  I do. That’s what I’m supposed to say as an employer, right? Like of course you could 
live on this. I would tell you that I feel as though the most valuable jobs in the next, well, from 
now moving forward, I don't know how long it will be. But I’d love to tell you that solid waste 
has got a lot of those. But any trades are so needed. It doesn’t matter if you’re a truck driver or 
you’re a plumber or you’re an electrician, we have sadly over-educated our population to a point 
that there’s not enough people to do the trades, the hands-on work that we desperately need. So I 
think that yes. I can tell you that I’ve watched long-term employees go from renting 
apartments—and they started off as adults. Not like they started off as 18 year-olds—to home 
ownership and not leasing the car, or not having the old car, to leasing to now owning. So I’ve 
seen what not only this industry can do, but also [what] hard workers that stick with something 
[can do]. That’s kind of a tough commodity nowadays, to find people that want to stay and put 
the time in in a business. And that’s what Vermont is kind of all about. There’s never going to be 
a huge score. You’re never going to become millionaires working in Vermont. But what you can 
do is you can carve out a wonderful life. Now I’ve got a six and an eight year-old and a family, 
and my wife and I could not be happier where we live. Tough times, a single person in their 
twenties. But Vermont, when you’re forty with a family, my opinion, there’s nothing better. And 
there’s nothing anywhere out there, hands down, it’s a great place to live. So it’s an affordable 
wage that you can carve out a nice life in this area is kind of the answer, I guess. 
 
00:11:05 
 
Nickerson:  Yeah. Great. Thanks. Well I know you have other things to do. I still have like 500 
questions for you. 
 
Mance:  (laughs) Part two coming in 2019, 2020? 
 
Nickerson:  I’m going to ask you one last question. And that is, is there anything that we haven’t 
covered that you would like people to know about the work that you do? 
 
Mance:  Hmm.  
 
Nickerson:  A message to all the people out there throwing stuff out? 
 
Mance:  Yeah, I guess the message to all the people throwing stuff out is I wish you could be 
here and see me and see the other people that Ginger, you’re going to get to see today. And know 
that we’re people that work really hard to deal with what we’re given. We’re not the ones 
making the decisions to put things in the recycling bins. We’re just given what we’ve given at 
the curb, at the MRF, at the transfer stations. And we don’t get an opportunity to interact with 
you, the user, and the decision makers of what we get coming down the waste stream. So my 
hope is that not only do we change consumer behavior or our customers’ behavior to understand 
that you need to care about recycling to have it actually work. But I think that a loftier goal is 
that we can somehow in the industry work our way back up that stream and start educating the 
citizens and residents on what we should be consuming and how we should be purchasing things. 
Because while we got a little punch drunk on single stream, we’re also getting punch drunk on 
the ease of how we purchase and consume. So we have to start looking at suppliers of things. 
20 
 
 
One bee in my bonnet is I shop on Amazon, as the other billions of people do. When I get 
my kid’s toy, I don’t need the plastic window in it. I’ve already purchased it. I wish they could 
send it to me in a brown cardboard box with a sticker of what it is on it. Because it would make 
that box recyclable, versus the unrecyclable box that we have with these great big plastic 
windows in them. So, things like that. 
 
Things like these, are they called Tetra Paks, the plastic [containers] you know, box 
board doesn’t really exist much anymore, save a couple of cereal boxes. But our crackers now 
come in that, and so much of our stuff comes in these Tetra Paks that are not recyclable. They 
were when people were just desperate for plastic. And there’s a small little side thing where you 
could send your Tetra Pak in. But the biggest thing that I am, second to being an 
environmentalist, maybe even first, is a pragmatist. And it’s our job as recyclers to not be way 
out there in left field. And I’m sorry for the offense to anybody, but not to be seen as ultra-
hippies, so to speak, but to be seen as a partner to get products to the right place. So we can’t just 
tell everybody that they have to compost all of their food and recycle every little drop that they 
make, and have zero waste. Zero waste is functionally unattainable. But it’s our job in this 
industry to help educate pragmatic ways to have the best impact that you can on the 
environment, and minimize our impacts. So I guess I’ll end with that. (laughs)  
 
Nickerson:  Great. Well Trevor, thank you so much, that was awesome. 
 
Mance:  You’re welcome. 
 
 
15:12 
[End Track 2. End Interview.] 
 
Total time = 78 minutes