DAVID HALBERT 
 
 
February 28, 2012 
Eastend Houston 
Houston Mooring 
 
 
00:00:18 
Born in Waco, TX. Moved to Pasadena at 2 years of age. Studied at Houston Public 
schools. Texas A&M and then UH Law school. Licensed attorney. Born Oct 30, 1943. 
Wanted to be an airline pilot from much younger. Wanted to enroll in the Air Force after 
A&M. Enrolled and started flying planes but before graduating found out a problem in 
eyes during the physical signaling an end to Air Force career. Also scheduled to get 
married to the daughter of the President of Houston Mooring who was looking to hire 
someone. Started working as a dispatcher.  
 
00:02:51 
Houston Mooring provides service to steam ships by sending out gangs of longshoreman 
and motorboats and take the lines from the ships and put them ashore. Petrochemical 
port. Most petrochemical docks are not traditional wharfs where a ship can pull up 
alongside and drop its lines to a dock. A T-head dock where ships drop the lines down to 
the boat that then take them either offshore mooring facilities or to the bank. Send a gang 
of 4 longshoreman to a ship.  
 
00:04:00 
Started at the time father was born. History has been lost. Mr. Baker in the business, a 
Dutchman, a German and father in law were working during WW2 and made either 
victory ships or liberty ships. Very fast built ships that were not too big and not too 
seaworthy. Built at the Houston ship channel. Came to work as a dispatcher. WOrked on 
weekends only. Worked 40 hours on the weekend. Worked part time for father moving 
pianos. Had to then join the military, joined the Texas National Guard. Went for active 
duty after a year. Father in law retired then and was elected Secretary treasurer of 
company and then VP and then President of Houston Mooring. Dispatcher would talk to 
the man on radio. No sophisticated radio. Agents would call and inform of ships coming 
in. When ship was boarded, pilots would call and inform. Based on that would be able to 
estimate time of arrival and would then call the crew. Payroll would be based on the log 
that also had to be kept at time of dispatch.  
 
00:10:55 
Houston Mooring hires longshoreman from a hiring call. When back from the army, was 
elected as secretary treasurer by the board of directors. For two years did all the 
accounting work, had to go aboard ships and get receipts signed. System of zones based 
 
 
on distance from office and the farther it is, the more is paid. The size of the ship is also 
taken into account. Premium for overtime work, holiday work and weekend work. All 
factors go into deciding payroll for longshoreman.  
 
00:14:05 
Can track a ship using AIS. There are screens in the dispatch office, each ship is labeled 
and they move across the screen periodically. Have a private company band radio. Two 
mooring companies in Houston. 
 
00:15:42 
Whoever operates the ship, have relationships with the agent. Based on public relations 
work, or salesmanship.  
 
00:16:25 
Always had three active officers. While roles tend to fit personalities, jobs are essentially 
the same. Have a daughter but isn’t interested in the business. Wife passed away in '03. 
she worked in the summer and Christmas holidays at the office.  
 
00:18:35 
Business is potentially dangerous. Constantly try and keep employees informed about 
safety measures. Personal injuries have improved over the years. In the mid 80s. were 
averaging 17 reportable injuries a year. some serious injuries. Lost employees to injuries. 
Got a citation from insurance companies for going a whole year without any injuries. 
Sign of culture change. Use boats and trucks and wenches more and human muscle less 
than the 80s. Ships and lines are bigger, distances are more, yet injury rate is less. Have a 
safety consultancy company. Full time program for looking after the docks. Lack of 
maintenance at the dock causes injuries.  
 
00:21:52 
Back in the 60s, safety was seldom considered. Union was resistant, company wasn’t 
enthusiastic about safety. There was a "macho culture" among longshoreman, did not 
want interference in their job. Injuries were considered an occupational hazard. Realized 
in the late 80s, that this could not continue. Couldn’t afford it,  
 
00:23:17 
Back then, there was a working crew of 50 men so 17 injuries is more than one a month. 
Most are smaller injuries but still prevents them from tying up a ship. Many back injuries 
which had to result in surgery. Incapacitated for a year. Have had compensation under 
Longshore Harbor Workers Act. Federal act and is pretty generous. Benefits are good. 
All expenses are covered. Full medical coverage.  
 
00:25:50 
 
 
They are covered by the company, employee pays nothing. Very expensive. With 
reduction in injuries, reduction in rates. In 1991, they are very active in the safety and 
very insistent that all their covered companies have a safety program in place.  
 
00:27:35 
The other ports employ differently. Employees here are longshoreman and are covered by 
the Longshore Harbor Workers Act. There are no dry cargo ships, all ships require boat 
operators, so under the law they are classified as seamen and are covered by the Jones 
Act. If you spend a third of your time on the water and assigned to one fleet of ships, you 
are a seamen and are subject to the Jones Act. Because of hiring call, they are not 
assigned to a single fleet, so employees are legally longshoreman. Use ILA labor docks, 
so from a labor peace perspective, need to be longshoreman and ILA to work.  
 
00:30.00 
ILA on the east coast was influenced by the mafia. Was not a big secret. In Houston, 
liked to put up a front that they were connected. Was a way to wield power. Over the 
years, it has evolved. East coast has changed considerably. The Gulf coast has changed 
more. South Atlantic and gulf coast district have new leadership. Education level, quality 
has made a big difference. Longshoreman lost a lot of work to non union competition. 
Saw that cooperation was the only way to retain work. Used to be lots of stevedoring 
companies in the Houston area in the 80s. But started reducing. Number of longshoreman 
ha reduced drastically.  
 
00:34:00 
During the strike there were many days without work. Did not go on the docks then, had 
goon squad, watching and would throw tacks and nails and were very menacing. While 
strike was on there were no cargo operations going on. Longshoreman lost all their work. 
Remember being at the office with nothing to do. That was the beginning of the non 
union movt. But took another 10-15 years to get moving. Still have non union docks, non 
union stevedores operating within the port now.  
 
00:37:52 
Saw it as management. Did not sympathize with what was going on. Some did. There 
was this culture of longshoreman brotherhood, some did not like losing their job. Had to 
lay off half the employees. Everyone who was laid off volunteered. Management did not 
sympathize with the strike. Looked at it as an "unjust money grabbing" method. Once the 
strike was over, did not lose anybody over it. It was an ILA Atlantic Coast strike.  
 
00:41:09 
Always wondered how long it can keep going, how long can ships keep coming to the 
docks. Keep waiting for the invention that would tie ships up automatically. It would 
require a system that would have to be used worldwide. Don’t see anything different 
happening but only see ships growing.  
 
 
 
00:43:00 
Employees, size, docks, Port of Houston has all expanded. Size of the ships are 
expanding dramatically. Houston is limited by draft restriction and size of ship channel.  
 
00:45:11 
Lines are bigger and come from higher up. Have 12 boats, Can hardly keep up with 
account so use ledgers. The communication between us and the towboats and the men is 
instantaneous and very accurate. Back then, sometimes did not know where a ship was. 
Was always guessing. Used to have men who would have to report immediately if they 
saw a ship. Longshoreman spend much less time waiting on a ship. Made their work a lot 
more efficient.  
 
00:48:00 
Have a communication with the pilots' dispatch team. Started an experimental look with 
another AIS system in New Orleans.  
 
00:49:55 
Always been an arcane business. Business is unique and not very well know. "Do the 
same thing everyday and it is always different."  
 
(TAPE ENDS at 00:51:50) 
 
(TAPE RESUMES)) 
 
00:00:00 
Initially came to work starting Friday at 3 pm and would work until 11pm. Sat at 7am and 
work until 11 pm. Sunday back at 7 -11. Did that for over a year. After that partners 
traded off working Thursday night. Gave an opportunity to keep an eye on what goes on 
in the night. Worked all night for 10-15 years once every third week. Now work a 9-5 
job.  
 
00:02:14 
All ships must be tied up. That is a safety priority. Back then, people would miss jobs. 
Sometimes only 2 in a gang would show up.  
 
00:04:30 
Close knit community. Over the years have developed personal relationships. There is a 
good camaraderie. All people have a common interest. Common goal to work towards is 
the same.