Ironworkers Documentation Project 
 
AUDIO LOG FORM 
 
Interviewer's recording no(s).:  BH IW 1 [Richards] 
 
Contact:  Name 
 
Michael Richards 
  
 
 
 
Interviewer:   Name Bucky Halker 
 
Interview: 
 
     Date:   
 
 
August 13, 2011 
 
 
 
 
     Place:  
 
 
IWU International Convention,  Sheraton Hotel on the  
 
 
 
Chicago River,  Exhibit Hall.   
 
     Other people present: 
None 
 
     Background noise:  This interview was conducted at the IWU convention in the exhibit hall.   
Richards I were literally inside the history exhibit-display.  The hall is very noisy and the 
interview area very boomy.    
 
 
 
 
 
     Equipment used:  Marantz PMD 661 digital recorder and Shure SM57 microphone. 
 
     Recording medium used:  Transcend 8 gigabyte SD memory card, uncompressed WAV 
format. 
 
     Recording engineer: 
Bucky Halker 
 
 
Summary description of audio interview contents:   
Richards reviews his own background and his entrance into the trade, ironworking in California, 
working as an organizer in Oklahoma, teaching ironworkers, his dad, and music.                                              
 
 
Audio Interview Contents 
 
 
Counter   
No./Time                   Topic 
00:01  [Well, first of all, tell me your name.]  Michael Richards.  [What year were you born 
Michael?]  1978. [What town were you born in?]  Fullerton, California.  [Did you go to high 
school there or…?]  I went to high school in Plecentia which is exactly next to it.  [What kind of 
family background…  Labor background?]  Labor background?  Third generation union 
ironworker.  My great uncle on my mother’s side was the first.  Then he got my Father in after 
my mother and father married.  Shortly later I came along and then ah…I got in.  And since then, 
I got my little brother in.  [Now did you start in an apprenticeship program at the high school 
or…?]  I was nineteen.  I had gone to college for a year.  I had some economic trouble.  I asked 
my Dad for a loan and he offered me a job as an apprentice ironworker.  [It sounds like 
something my Dad would have done.]  Yeah.  I asked him before if I could get into the 
ironworkers right out of high school and he said no.  He didn’t want me to be an ironworker and 
so  I went to college and I asked him again and he said no.  And then when I asked him for the 
big loan, he got me the job.  [Now why didn’t he want you to go into the business? Was it the 
safety?]  Well, I think all ironworkers want better for their children.  I just had my son.  At first I 
told a bunch of people that I’d never let him be an ironworker but since then, I’ve changed my 
thinking on it.  I mean, it’s provided everything I have basically.   
1:36   [What local did you apprentice…?]  433 out of Los Angeles, California.  [Did you do a 
four year program?]  It was a three year program but hmm… I messed around a lot.  It took me 
six years to get out of apprenticeship.  [Laughter] Yeah.  [Is that like going to college on the 
seven year plan or something?]  Yeah.  Kind of.  A lot of disciplinary problems.  I would 
disappear for 6-7 months.  Instead of taking a 3-month summer, I’d take a 6 month summer.   
And then I’d have to re-apply or go before the Board.  But since I had the family connection, I 
was able to get back in every time.  And every time they told me it was my last opportunity.  
[They were kind enough to let me back in.] Yup.  [That’s great.] 
2:22   [What kind of jobs did you do as an apprentice?]   I started out as a welder helper.  So 
basically we would hang floats for the welders to stand on and move machines.  Re-set 
machines.  Bring materials up.  Bring the consumables up, like wire and sticks, stuff like that.  
[You just mentioned a term, the float.  Tell me what a float is because I know what it is but I’d 
like to have it on tape.]  A float is ahh…usually a 3 by 5 wooden platform, consisting of an angle 
iron frame and 4 hemp ropes which are usually 1 inch manilla ropes.  And you tie them to certain 
points on the building.  They hang off the parameter of the building, multiple floors above the 
street level, so that welders can get to what they need to weld.  It’s basically a suspended 
platform.  [And is it… They’re tied off…  Where are they’re tied off?]  They’re usually tie off to 
the floor beams so they hang down slightly below the floor that you are accessing it from.  And 
ahh…there’s a special knot to tie them too.  It takes a little while to get the hang of them, how to 
hang them.  It takes two guys to hang a float and you have to work in perfect concert,  otherwise 
somebody’s going to end up with 200 pounds of wood in their hands and that’s not good on the 
edge of a building.   
3:54  [So besides that, and besides working as an assistant to the welders, what else did you do?]  
I worked my way into the raising gang.  And, it took some hazing to get into the raising gang.  I 
got a lot of jokes played on me before…  [Like what kind of things?]  Like…where I came from, 
it was a structural local so we didn’t do any rebar.  And the top position was a connecter and that 
was like every young guy’s goal was to be a connecter.  And I wanted to be a connecter.  I was in 
good shape.  I was built for it.  And people would say, “Hey, you want to connect?”  And I’d say, 
“Hell yeah.  You know?”  Thinking it was my shot.  And they’d say, “Go connect this power 
cord in the outlet over there.”  Oh yeah, funny joke.  You know?  But finally I got the 
opportunity to work in the raising gang.  And then I worked my way up from the ground crew all 
the way up to the connecter and then…ahh…  I was on a raising gang foreman for a while and 
then became a general foreman after that. 
5:08  [And what was that gang responsible for?]  Well, we take this structural steel off the truck 
that showed up in the morning.  Shake it out.  And then we’d mark the pieces, for piece numbers 
and location.  And we actually hooked them on,  each individual piece to the crane.   The crane 
would then take it up to where it goes in the building and the connecters would connect the 
pieces.  Columns were vertical members,  and beams and headers were horizontal members.   
Basically, we were responsible for erecting the structure primarily just getting it up.  And then 
there were other crews that came back behind us to make sure it was straight, deck it, and all that 
other stuff.  [How do you know which piece of iron goes where?  Do you have a blue print on 
that?]  Yeah.  It’s all on an erection print.  Then the erection prints will give you locations of 
every piece number.  As a raising gang foreman, you get the prints and you are responsible for 
thinking really in three dimensions.  Vertically, horizontally, and what carries what.  You have to 
know what you have to put up before everything else can be attached to it.  So you have to 
think…to look at the print and actually think backwards almost, as to know what needs to come 
up next piece comes up.  [Yeah, so you have to have a pretty wholistic grasp.]  Exactly.  It’s a lot 
of conceptual thinking that some people can’t ever do.  It’s tough. 
 
6:50  [Then after that, what did you do, besides the gang work.  Did you do that for a long time?]  
I was a connecter for a long time.  When I left Los Angeles, I was a connecter.  I moved to Tulsa.  
And I applied in Tulsa as a connecter.  I also had a welding certificate at that point.  My Father 
taught welding in the apprenticeship in Los Angeles.  And so I have multiple disciplines that I 
was good at.  And when I came to Tulsa, I made my name as a connecter.  There was a really 
giant building being built and I wasn’t a member of the local yet.  I was still booming.  And they 
asked me if I connected.  And I said, “Yeah.”  So I went out there and we didn’t have a really 
good raising gang foreman and I was correcting them all the time.  So they gave me the raising 
gang foreman position instead.  After about two weeks, I was a raising gang foreman.  About six 
months later, I was running the entire job as a general foreman.  [So that’s a lot of 
responsibility.]  It was.  And I know I was young at the time.  I had…   [How old were you? Still 
in your twenties?]  I was 28, running a $300 million job.  GIGGLES  [Did it keep you up at 
night?]  Yeah.  I would actually dream about what we were doing tomorrow, the night before.  
And I had a one month old baby when I got the job.  So…  [So you weren’t sleeping much 
anyway.]  No, not at all.  It was tough.  I get emotional thinking about how hard it was.  [I can 
imagine.] 
8:40   [Well, how did you get from that, then, to…you’re in Tulsa, right?]  Yeah.  [How did you 
get from… By the way, that local you were in.  That’s in Los Angeles all the way to Vegas, 
right?]  Yeah.  It’s…  [It’s all that territory?] It just north of San Diego all the way up 
to…like…not quite to Pismo Beach but up the coast quite a ways.  And then east all the way to 
Vegas.  I started my apprenticeship in Las Vegas and then I moved my membership over to Los 
Angeles’s hall where I’ll finish it out.  And then I met my wife in Southern California.  We 
decided to move to Tulsa.  So we moved there.  It’s a funny story how I transferred.  I went 
fishing with my wife’s grandfather in Tulsa on a vacation.  [Did she have family roots there?]  
Yeah, her whole family is in Oklahoma, in Tulsa.  She just lived in California at the time.   And 
we had been trying to buy a home in Southern California and just couldn’t come up with the 
money because the housing bubble was so large at the time.  So we…we were in Tulsa and I was 
fishing and her granddad got me drunk.  I started looking through the paper and I found a house 
that I could afford.  But I really wanted to look at it so I went and got in the car and drove 
around.  I couldn’t find it but I ran into another house and I called the number on the sign.  The 
realtor came out and about an hour later, I bought the house.  GIGGLE  [You got a mortgage 
without knowing what you were going to do?]  Well, I was pre-qualified in California, but I 
hadn’t found anything in my price range.  [Sure.]  So I bought this small ranch in Tulsa, outside 
the city.  And I, I’m still not a member there.  I hadn’t asked the business agent in the local if I 
could work there.  And I didn’t know anybody.  So I went to the hall the next day and I told the 
business manager that I just bought a house here.  I’m a journeyman ironworker out of Los 
Angeles and I wanted to know if I could work.  And he said, “Well, we’ll see if you like it here.  
Whenever you are here, just come in and we’ll talk.”  So that night I went home to my wife’s 
grandparents’ house and her granddad had a dinner guest who ran one of the largest erectors in 
Tulsa and he gave me a job on the spot even though I wasn’t cleared through the hall.  And when 
we moved out two weeks later, I just called the hall and said, “Hey, I got a job…” which is a no-
no because you can get in trouble…  [Because you’re going in another jurisdiction.]  Right and I 
had no permission.  I wasn’t cleared in or anything.  And they said, “Oh, if so and so wants you, 
you can work there.  So I did for a while.  I kept asking them, over and over again, when I can I 
transfer in.  And they said, “Well, we don’t know because you’re new here and we don’t know if 
you’re going to like it.”  So I said, “Ok, well, you know when can I transfer?”  I kept hitting 
them up for it and finally they heard about me and said, “When are you going to transfer in?”  
And I said, “Well, I’ve been asking you for months.”  So that’s how it went down.  I transferred 
in and shortly thereafter, I ran for recording secretary.  Nobody opposed me.  I got in and I 
worked my way up.   
12:16  [Were there many in Los Angeles or Tulsa…where there many guys, say, under 40, who 
were involved with in union activity?  Or was it mostly just work?]  No.  I’d say mostly younger 
men in LA, it was just work.  It seems to me like most people don’t get involved until they’re 
almost too late.  You know?  Where they can’t relate with the younger guys that they’re trying to 
interact with later on.  I was in a unique circumstance where I got into the local.  I never missed a 
union meeting.  We give away a watch every 12 meetings you attend so you can get a watch 
annually if you attend every union meeting.  And i t’s a gold watch.  [That’s an ironworker’s 
watch, right?]  Yeah.  I have three of them.  I‘m not eligible anymore because I’m a paid official.  
I have three of them the three years I was in the local.  I helped to write the resolution that 
created the position I’m in now because we needed an organizer.  So…  I wrote the resolution.  
We ran it.  Got it passed.  Got hired on full time.  And now I’m out in the field so I no longer…  
[Work on the job.]  …right.  I don’t construct buildings.  Now I try to organize non-union shops. 
13:39   [So what year did you travel from the Los Angeles area to Tulsa?]  2007.  [And what year 
did you become a recording secretary?]  2009.  And then I became full time organizer December 
2010.  [Are you…]   2009, sorry.  [Are you, they actively organizing?]  Yes.  Every non-union 
company within my geographical jurisdiction knows who I am.  I’ve been actively recruiting, 
actively organizing, multiple NLRB {National Labor Relations Board] cases.  I’ve been really, 
really pro-active as far as organizing is concerned in my area.  [How’s that going?]  Yeah, it’s 
pretty tough.  GIGGLE  My Dad asked me…  He called me and said, “How’s it going?”  And I 
said, “It’s going all right.”  “Well, what’s the learning curve like?”  And I said, “Dad, it’s like 
jumping off a cliff.”  I went from knowing everything I needed to know about erecting iron to 
knowing nothing about labor law.  Really just feeling around in the dark.  My first campaign was 
horrendous.  I just blew it to hell.  I probably could have got sued.  But luckily, they didn’t know 
as much as I didn’t know.  So…   [It wasn’t because you were violating any NLRB laws.]  Yeah, 
myself, and I didn’t know it.  But I educated myself eventually and now I’m pretty good at it.  
[How did you educate yourself?]  I read all the time.  I always have a book.  I attended some 
trainings through the international and they clued me in on a lot of things I didn’t know.  They 
would loan me organizers.  [To help you, assist you?]  Yeah, I mean, really it’s just man power.  
I’m going to go out on a house call…in rural Arkansas, on dirt roads and stuff.   They don’t want 
you going out by yourself.  So I would bring guys from all over the country really.  They would 
go with me.  Some of them had a lot more experience than me and we’d talk in the hours that 
you spent in a car, you know?  And you’d get an informal education that way.  [You just 
mentioned Arkansas.  How big is the, what is the geographic size of your local?]  I have all of 
Eastern Oklahoma so anything east of Oklahoma City to the Texas line.  I have five counties in 
Kansas, 5-6 counties in Missouri, and 5-6 counties in Arkansas.  So it’s like that corner there.  
[It’s quite the area.]  It’s huge, yeah.  I take me, ahh, to get from one end to the other…five 
hours, not stopping.  It’s big. 
16:36   [When you’re organizing, you said you made house calls.   You go to ironworkers and try 
to talk them into joining a local?]  Yeah, yeah.  My first…ahh…real campaign, ahh, I didn’t 
know shit.  I was literally just handed the keys to the truck.  “You’re an organizer now.  Show us 
what you got.”  So I went to the biggest non-union job in Tulsa.  I walked up to the guy and I 
said, “Hey, are you hiring?”  And he said, “Well, what do you know?”  And I said, “I’m a 
connecter from California.”  He says, “We might be hiring.”  So I was hired on as a salt and I 
work covert.  And I spoke to the men on breaks.  I tried to organize a little bit of revolt.  Didn’t 
work out for me.  I went out on a single person economic strike after there was some difficulty 
where I was a…I was afraid for my physical well being because of some things that happened.  
And so I went out on a single man economic strike and then NLRB didn’t find in my favor.  And 
that was a big learning curve on it.  But…hmm…because I was able to get into a company 
and…and get inside and figure out their entire structure and meet every single worker.  [Yeah.] 
And I’m really good at being a connecter.  So…I was the best connecter they’d ever seen and I 
taught some of their guys things accidentally.  The guys working in the field, they really trusted 
me and really respected me but t, the the leadership of that company, after I left on the strike, 
they really…hmm…tore me down to the mat.   And it was a big learning curve.  A lot of people 
were really excited at international about what I was doing.  But the end result was nothing really 
ever happened.  So it was a learning experience for me, but no one had ever really done that in 
probably a long time, getting in and salting the job.  [Were there workers on the site that you 
basically got pretty close to and stuff?]  Yeah, I mean, really personally close.  [Then, did 
that…when the thing fell through and they were bad mouthing you?]   I had guys that I would 
call after the fact and they would say, one of them in particular said, “I have nothing to say to 
you.”  You know?  And I said, “Why’s that?”  He said, “Well, our whole relationship was a lie.  
You lied to me the whole time.”  And I said, “No I didn’t.  I just didn’t tell you everything.”  
You know?  And he hung up.  I haven’t spoke to him since.  But other guys, ahh…  They would, 
like, call me later when they had problems.  Like, the company is doing this and that to me.  
What do I do?  [Yeah.] And, I don’t know.  So some of them finally have that avenue to go to for 
resolution on certain problems.  But other people really didn’t take it well. 
19:37  [How did you…like, that was your first organizing attempt…  What do you do differently 
now?]  Now I’m more forthcoming.  I tell them who I am and what I’m there for.  Hmm…  I met 
with some stiff resistance…in that avenue as well.  [How do you find out…ahhh…  Are you 
going to a job sites and talk to people or do you get a name of a few workers?  How do you know 
where to start?  If you know there’s a place you got to be in a town in Arkansas or Missouri or 
whatever…?]  Well, I generally know who the contractor is because they’ll beat out one of my 
singnatory contractors on the job.  And that’s how I get my leads, from them.  They’ll say, “This 
big project is going to so and so.”  Then I’ll go to the job and I’ll start following them around and 
figure out who the guys are, where they’re staying.  Contact them at their hotel or motel or 
wherever they’re staying, because usually they’re from out of town.  Then I’ll start talking to 
them.  I’ll offer them meetings, like where we could meet and I’ll pay for whatever, dinner, beer, 
so we can talk and start dialog.  Try to get their…ahh…their complaints.  I need to have a 
complaint, something I can latch on to where I can generate a campaign around.  It could be as 
simple as they don’t provide us with drinking water during the day and it’s hot.  That can be a 
campaign.  But if they won’t talk to you at all, you don’t have a campaign.  So…  It’s getting to 
know who they are and where they’re going and where they’re staying and a lot of covert stuff.  
Hmm…  I’ll go, I’ll go through their trash.  I’ll go through their company’s trash.  I’ll go to their 
headquarters and get in their dumpsters and pull out their trash bags and read through their mail 
and anything they throw away.  Employee rosters.  Get phone numbers from there and call them 
and talk to the people cold, you know?  See what’s going on.  Sometimes they hang up.  
Sometimes they don’t answer.  Sometimes they do.  All kinds of stuff.  [Is that working better 
than your original…?]  I don’t know that it works better.  It’s just more…like a…transparent.  
You know?  There’s no…ahh…cloak and dagger, lying, hurt feelings type stuff.  These guys get 
hurt feelings when they think you’re somebody you’re not.  You know?  And so…ahh…  But 
even that cloak and dagger stuff eventually led to some, a good outcome.  People call me still to 
this day about, you know, problems that they’re having on their jobs.  I have actually been about 
to recruit some members away from that company and into our membership.   
22:23   [Do you have an apprenticeship program?]  Yes.  [Do you have an active role in that 
too?]  Yeah, I’m an instructor in the apprenticeship.  [What area do you teach?]  I teach safety, I 
teach history, and I teach math.  I’m an OSHA 500 instructor.  And I use that in organizing as 
well.  If a company’s,  you know, beating the contractors because they’re cutting corners on 
safety, I go out and watch them.  Take photographs.  Document violations, turn them in to 
OSCHA.  Just as an organizing tactic to drive their costs up to be more competitive with our 
contractors who follow the law to the T.  And I found that to be…ahh…  I find it to be effective 
as far as cost measures are concerned, but not organizing as in breaking membership into the 
union.  But you gotta do what you gotta do. 
23:22  [So what’s the…  What keeps you going in that role of an organizer?  I mean obviously 
it’s different than just being an ironworker.]  Yeah, it’s…  I tell you one thing.  It’s not the 
money.  [LAUGHTER]  My wife…ahh…makes good money and she complains to this day that 
I’m working more hours than ever and making a steady paycheck, for sure, but not as much as I 
ever did.  [Tell her it could be worse.  You could be a musician.]  Yeah…  [LAUGHTER]  True.  
[So it’s not the money.  Obviously there’s something else that…]  I think it’s just my passion 
for…the union.  I mean… I’m going to get emotional again…ahh…  Everything I’ve ever had 
from the day I was born  was…provided…not provided by the union but, through the union 
by...my wages set forth…provided everything that I had.  [Yeah.  So in your family, I mean your 
Dad, obviously and you.]  Yeah, my Dad had a…  My Dad didn’t even go through high school, 
you know?  He dropped out when he was 16 and joined the Navy when he was 17 and got a 
GED.  Like basically a piece of paper, a GED that he didn’t actually have to do any work for.  
That got him into the union later on but…ahh…  My Father is dyslexic.  He can’t hardly read but 
because of the union, my Dad was able to make the money that provided for us.  [Yeah.] 
24:52  [You know, one of the things that I noticed…and I’m talking to a lot of the ironworkers…  
It’s funny you should mention your Dad being dyslexic because I was talking to one of the 
instructors from one of the locals here.  He does a lot of teaching and he said he gets a lot of guys 
who are dyslexic.   It’s clear they’re learning disabled that even if they were never diagnosed for 
it.]  Some of them can’t even read at all.  [That’s what he was saying.  But I also noticed that a 
lot of…  The guys always seem pretty smart.  I’ve interviewed a bunch of people, I haven’t 
found one that I’d consider a lunk head.]  Right.  [And they seem to be very creative, good 
problem solvers.  Maybe not book learners, but good at figuring stuff out.  And is that kind of 
your experience, too, with ironworkers?]  A lot of them are kind of mechanically inclined, even 
if they are not academically inclined.  But…ahh…  You have to be…  You have to be able to 
think conceptually.  It’s not something that we find that’s really taught in school too much 
anymore.  [Yeah.]  Everyone’s getting away from the…ahh…like trades and…  You know, you 
used to have wood shop and auto shop and all these programs are being deleted now because 
they want everybody to go straight to academia but…ahh…  When I was in auto shop, in high 
school, I had two periods of auto shop, my first two periods from 8 am to 10 pm, or, 10 am.  I 
had auto shop and it’s because…I loved it.  I mean, I had a hot rod and that’s what I loved to do 
in the morning.  Why go to school when you can go to the shop.  They had lifts and everything. 
 
26:34  [What kind of car did you have?]  It was a 65 GTO.  I still have it.  [What kind of engine?  
Sorry.]  A 389.  [Does it have a manual transmission?]  No, it’s a power glide.  Yeah.  [Does that 
disappoint you?  Would you rather have one?  GIGGLE]   Well, when I re-build it, I’m going to 
have probably a 6-speed manual.  [Do you have that in Tulsa now?]  Yeah.  Yeah.  I’ve drug it 
all over the country, really.   
27:00  But, hmm…  They don’t teach that at school anymore.  My auto shop teacher when I was 
a freshman, we could only go one period a day.  He said, “You know, you guys need to realize 
that not all of you are going to college.”  He said, “60% of you…”  And he meant the whole 
school when he said this.  “…are going to make a living with your hands.”  There’s things in this 
world that need to be done with people that can use their hands.  Not everybody can just sit 
behind a desk all day because…  You can have all of the people in the world behind a desk but 
then nothing’s going to get done.  And so that really stuck with me.  And that’s where I ended 
up, even though I went to college, I ended up working with my hands.  It’s been…I consider it a 
noble profession really.  [Sure.] 
27:56  [So, you have a Woody Guthrie T shirt on.  What’s the connection between your job and 
that?  Or, music in general?]  Oh, I’ve always loved music.  I mean, you know, you go through 
that typical teenage years when you have that tough spot.  But Woody Guthrie…   With being 
now connected with Oklahoma and Okemah not being far from my house.  I just…ahh…  I 
didn’t even learn of Woody Guthrie until I was about 26 probably.  I never heard a Woody 
Guthrie song until then.  And then, I really identify with it even though there was a generational 
gap there.  It’s like, this is as good today, or as true today as it was back then.  You know?  I’m 
going through the same things but…you know…obviously different variables.  But ahh…  I just 
love the music.  As simple and basic as it was, it still speaks to the same things as today as it did 
back then.  [Have you listened to him in the raw form?  Or do you listen to, like, Wilco and…]  
I’ll listen to both. Musically I listen to everything.  I wouldn’t confine myself to one genre.  
There was a time when you wouldn’t catch me listening to anything but hard core metal or 
anything like that, but that was in my teenage angst years.   Now I listen to just about anything 
that speaks to me, really.  [Are there any hard core metal bands or bands outside of the main 
stream spectrum or whatever that are in your mind addressing the issues like Guthrie did?]  Rage 
Against the Machine did when I was in high school. [Are you a fan?]  Yeah.  And Tom Morello 
now, he does too, but his band has obviously disbanded.  Ahh…  I’d say he was one of the more 
modern labor-friendly voices in music.  There’s probably a few more but they’re not as big 
as…or doesn’t have as much broad appeal as Tom Morello does.   
 
30:16   [So in Oklahoma, do you have any local bands to listen to?  Because you got…]  Well, 
our music scene, it tends to come out of Austin for some reason and then it comes right up the 
turnpike, so we get a lot of bands from Austin that tour our local venues.  I’m personal friends 
with the three guys that own all the venues in town, so I get to go to any show I want to and…  I 
have a…  I still keep my music connections pretty solid.  But Tulsa’s music scene, it seems to 
have…gotten a lot watered down.  It’s not as vibrant as it used to be.  Yeah, there’s no 
more…ahh…  The Church Studios just re-opened after a big remodel.  Nothing has come out of 
there really to speak of.  Ahh… [Have you incorporated music into your…]   Organizing? [Yeah, 
or to your history classes?]  No, I took a music…  I took a labor history class out of IV Tech in 
Indiana, on line.  There was a music portion in that but I haven’t used them in my class.  My 
students tend to be younger so we’re talking like 18 to 25.  They’re not too receptive to folk 
music.  [No, I didn’t think so.]  I mean, even though…  Maybe later on, but they still have that, 
like, testosterone at 120 and it’s like, it’s not going to happen.  It would really be punishing them,  
instead of like enriching them.  Do you know what I mean?  [Oh, I understand.]  Even though 
they will appreciate it later.  Like I said, I didn’t hear my first Woody Guthrie song until I was 26 
or so.  And then…  I don’t think I would have appreciated it at 18.  Do you know what I mean?  
Pete Seeger, or any…nothing.  Not at that age.  But later on, sure. 
32:29   [Well, I just have one more question and that is…  Like, where do you see the labor 
union in general?  Do you have any grand ideas about that?  I’m sure you think about that, 
right?]  I do, yeah.  Hmm…  In my sleep even, you know?  Laugh. I don’t know where it’s going 
to go…  I know it’s not going to go away as long as I’m around, it’s not going to go away.  But I 
think we’re going to have…  I hope we’re going to have a cultural swing where we go back to 
our past and back to a strong union background…or…  Even if it doesn’t deal with labor unions 
so much.  It’s like workers’ rights and eventually, hopefully, people will come around and see 
that, you know, working a Macjob or working for Walmart, there’s no future.  It’s…  Walmart is 
basically, in my opinion, your new company store.  The people that work there only make 
enough money to spend their paychecks there and feed their families and that’s unfortunate.  I’d 
like to see people take more pride in “Made in America” products.  Hmm…  I just…really 
realized that…ahh…the people that create jobs in America aren’t looking out for labor.  They’re 
looking out for…ahh…stock market prices…ahh…   That this balance sheet recession we’re 
going through now will kind of wake people up, I’m hoping.  I don’t know that it will.  I’m 
really hoping that people realize that there’s more to life than working 40 hours a week just to be 
able to feed the family and live in an apartment.  And break even or even some times going a 
little bit in debt.  It’s like that goal of being middle class where you can afford to have vacations.  
Afford to send your children to school and get ahead.  There’s so much in the mentality with the 
guys that I deal with, day in and day out, in the non-union side is, “I’m getting by.  You 
know…I’m doing well.  I feed my family and…”  Yeah but…  You worked 2500 hours last year 
and did you go on vacation?  Well, no, we can’t afford to go on vacation.  Well, did you buy a 
house?  No.  Why would I buy a house?  I can’t afford it.  I have a nice two bedroom apartment.  
You’re paying somebody else to life in that apartment.  You’re not creating any equity.  You’re 
not living the American dream.  You’ve got a 20 year old car, you know, that runs six days a 
week and the seventh day you’re working on it instead of spending time with your kids.  Hmm…  
I hope people will come to it. But… It’s going to take effort on my part and the rest of our parts 
to make it happen. 
  [It’s been a pleasure. I really enjoyed it.]  Thank you. 
END 35:45