Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
1	  of	  17	  
Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  
Louisiana	  Division	  of	  the	  Arts	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle,	  Owner,	  Baker,	  Cake	  Decorator	  
Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Bakery	  
	  
Central,	  Louisiana	  
Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Bakery	  
April	  2,	  2015	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green,	  Ph.D.,	  Fieldworker	  
	  
Interview	  Identifier:	  afc2014023_02280	  
	  
INTERVIEW	  LOG	  
	  
NOTE:	  Direct	  quotes	  are	  indicates	  in	  italics.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
00:04	  
Introduces	  interview	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
00:28	  
Background,	  getting	  into	  the	  bakery	  business	  
Debbie	  was	  born	  in	  the	  Midwest.	  She	  left	  when	  she	  was	  18	  and	  did	  the	  Army	  stint	  for	  15	  years,	  
during	  which	  time	  she	  traveled	  wherever	  the	  Army	  sent	  her.	  She	  didn't	  touch	  a	  cake	  in	  that	  
time	  frame.	  She	  did	  do	  little	  basic	  things	  for	  her	  kids	  that	  most	  moms	  do,	  but	  nothing	  serious.	  
She	  thinks	  it	  was	  in	  about	  2008,	  when	  it	  was	  all	  born,	  her	  cake	  decorating	  work,	  and	  it	  was	  
actually	  her	  husband	  who	  got	  her	  started	  on	  the	  cakes.	  He	  was	  watching	  the	  cake	  shows	  on	  
television,	  which	  were	  getting	  popular	  at	  that	  time.	  He	  wanted	  to	  dabble	  with	  it,	  and	  Debbie	  
wanted	  to	  have	  something	  to	  do	  while	  she	  was	  dabbling,	  so	  she	  started	  playing	  with	  cakes,	  too.	  
Her	  husband	  stopped	  after	  a	  while,	  and	  Debbie	  kept	  going	  with	  it.	  And	  she	  kept	  doing	  more,	  
getting	  bigger	  and	  bigger	  with	  it,	  and	  it's	  been	  non-­‐stop	  since	  2008.	  
	  
Her	  husband	  was	  into	  the	  cake	  carving	  and	  doing	  the	  3-­‐D	  work,	  while	  Debbie	  wasn't	  interested	  
in	  that,	  she	  was	  interested	  in	  making	  pretty	  cakes.	  So,	  it	  took	  her	  a	  long	  time	  before	  she	  needed	  
to	  do	  the	  carving,	  because	  a	  lot	  of	  groom's	  cakes	  are	  hobby-­‐related.	  She	  was	  very	  cake-­‐
intimidated	  at	  first,	  and	  it	  took	  her	  a	  few	  years	  to	  gain	  confidence	  in	  this	  area.	  She	  was	  afraid	  
the	  cakes	  would	  break,	  and	  handled	  them	  like	  they	  were	  glass.	  She	  drove	  like	  an	  old	  maman—
she	  still	  does	  that,	  though!	  Now	  she's	  comfortable,	  but	  it	  took	  a	  while	  to	  get	  to	  that	  stage.	  Her	  
husband	  still	  gets	  involved,	  helps	  with	  the	  carving,	  gives	  her	  great	  ideas	  and	  helps	  her	  work	  on	  
larger	  pieces.	  Debbie	  is	  very	  "Army,"	  doesn't	  see	  things	  outside	  the	  box,	  and	  he's	  very	  creative,	  
so	  they	  make	  a	  great	  team.	  He	  thinks	  of	  things	  she	  never	  would	  have	  thought	  of.	  	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
2	  of	  17	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
03:02	  
Going	  into	  business	  
In	  2008,	  she	  was	  doing	  cakes	  at	  home	  for	  friends	  and	  family,	  giving	  cakes	  to	  whomever	  she	  
could	  give	  them	  too.	  After	  three	  months	  of	  doing	  cakes	  at	  home,	  she	  decided	  she	  wanted	  to	  go	  
into	  it	  for	  a	  living.	  So	  she	  went	  to	  work	  for	  a	  bakery	  in	  Baton	  Rouge,	  and	  was	  still	  doing	  cakes	  at	  
home,	  getting	  better,	  doing	  more.	  It	  got	  to	  the	  point	  where	  it	  was	  too	  much,	  as	  she	  still	  had	  
another	  day	  job.	  She'd	  go	  from	  her	  office	  job,	  to	  the	  bakery,	  then	  home	  to	  make	  cakes	  for	  
friends	  and	  family.	  She	  had	  to	  give	  up	  something,	  so	  she	  stopped	  working	  at	  the	  bakery.	  	  
	  
She	  was	  going	  to	  continue	  to	  do	  it	  out	  of	  her	  home,	  as	  she	  and	  her	  husband	  have	  15	  acres	  to	  
build	  on	  and	  she	  was	  going	  to	  put	  a	  little	  shop	  in	  next	  to	  their	  home.	  This	  would	  not	  have	  been	  
a	  storefront.	  But	  Central's	  zoning	  rules	  are	  such	  that	  she	  couldn’t	  start	  a	  new	  business	  out	  in	  
the	  country,	  as	  they	  want	  everything	  to	  be	  in	  New	  Central,	  so	  they	  disapproved	  her	  plans.	  She	  
didn’t	  know	  what	  to	  do,	  as	  she	  had	  been	  gathering	  equipment	  and	  had	  bought	  out	  a	  
restaurant.	  She	  was	  forced	  into	  establishing	  a	  storefront	  business	  before	  she	  expected	  to	  do	  so.	  
The	  building	  is	  in	  such	  a	  good	  location.	  There	  are	  two	  good	  spots	  to	  the	  left	  and	  right	  [Mike	  
Anderson's	  Restaurant	  and	  a	  large	  church.	  So	  she	  went	  for	  it,	  although	  she	  hadn't	  planned	  on	  
doing	  that	  size	  of	  a	  storefront	  first.	  That's	  how	  things	  panned	  out.	  
	  
The	  State	  of	  Louisiana	  passed	  a	  Cottage	  Food	  Law,	  which	  allows	  home	  bakers	  to	  bake	  out	  of	  
their	  home,	  without	  health	  inspections.	  A	  lot	  of	  the	  bakeries	  are	  not	  happy	  about	  this	  because	  
they	  have	  to	  follow	  stringent	  rules,	  but	  Debbie	  doesn't	  mind,	  as	  she	  has	  been	  on	  that	  side	  of	  it,	  
and	  can	  empathize.	  Sometimes	  you	  need	  to	  start	  somewhere,	  and	  you	  may	  not	  be	  ready	  to	  
work	  in	  a	  facility.	  What	  does	  hurt	  is	  when	  the	  home	  bakers	  don't	  know	  how	  to	  price	  things,	  and	  
they	  might	  sell	  a	  four-­‐tier	  cake	  for	  $50	  or	  something,	  and	  seriously	  undercut	  the	  bakeries.	  She	  
doesn't	  think	  they	  do	  it	  intentionally,	  they	  just	  don't	  know	  how	  to	  price	  things	  out.	  But	  the	  
town	  where	  Debbie	  lives	  overrode	  this	  law,	  so	  Debbie	  was	  not	  allowed	  to	  do	  a	  home	  baking	  
business	  out	  of	  her	  house,	  where	  she	  had	  planned	  on	  doing	  this.	  So	  she	  was	  forced	  to	  either	  get	  
a	  facility,	  just	  keep	  it	  low	  key	  and	  do	  cakes	  for	  friends	  and	  family,	  or	  move.	  But	  they	  have	  15	  
acres	  they're	  waiting	  to	  build	  on,	  so	  moving	  wasn't	  an	  option.	  
	  
She	  opened	  her	  business	  a	  year	  ago—April	  1,	  2014.	  It	  was	  not	  an	  April	  Fools	  joke!	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
07:13	  
Learning	  the	  craft	  
How	  did	  she	  go	  about	  learning	  everything?	  She	  learned	  a	  lot	  when	  she	  was	  decorating	  cakes	  at	  
home,	  and	  when	  you	  go	  into	  business,	  it's	  different,	  so	  she	  had	  to	  learn	  a	  lot	  as	  she	  got	  the	  
business	  going.	  Her	  husband	  has	  a	  great	  business	  mind,	  so	  he	  helped	  with	  the	  
business/financial	  aspect,	  and	  Debbie	  handled	  the	  baking	  and	  decorating	  aspect.	  They	  have	  had	  
a	  couple	  of	  small	  businesses	  before,	  so	  they	  knew	  about	  owning	  a	  business,	  about	  the	  legalities	  
and	  paper	  work.	  But	  they	  are	  still	  learning	  a	  lot	  as	  they	  go.	  You	  want	  to	  work	  smarter,	  not	  
harder,	  and	  sometimes	  that's	  just	  learn-­‐as-­‐you-­‐go.	  The	  book	  she	  bought,	  How	  to	  Open	  a	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
3	  of	  17	  
Bakery,	  is	  worthless	  because	  it's	  not	  “real	  life.”	  "So,	  sometimes	  you've	  just	  got	  to	  use	  your	  
instinct	  and	  common	  sense,	  and	  talk	  to	  other	  people,	  and	  a	  lot	  of	  places	  don't	  want	  to	  talk	  to	  
you,	  though,	  you	  know?"	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
08:30	  
Baton	  Rouge	  and	  cakes;	  Groom's	  cakes	  
LMG	  talks	  about	  how	  Maida	  Owens	  thinks	  there	  is	  something	  special	  going	  on	  with	  cakes	  in	  
Baton	  Rouge,	  that	  it's	  a	  special	  place	  for	  cakes.	  "It	  is.	  And	  it's	  just	  a	  special	  place	  anyway,	  
because	  it	  has	  such	  a	  unique	  environment	  and	  culture,	  and	  you	  know,	  our	  groom's	  cakes	  will	  be	  
a	  carved	  crawfish.	  You	  know?	  So	  we	  have	  a	  lot	  of	  unique	  things	  here	  that	  get	  transformed	  over	  
to	  the	  cake.	  You	  know,	  hunting	  is	  huge	  here.	  You'll	  see	  cakes	  carved	  that	  look	  like	  a	  deer,	  and	  
there's	  a	  cake	  of	  deer-­‐	  and	  duck-­‐themed—and	  fishing	  is	  huge.	  So	  there's	  so	  many	  neat	  things	  
that	  can	  get	  transferred	  over	  to	  cakes,	  that	  a	  lot	  of	  other	  places	  just	  don't	  even	  think	  about	  it,	  
because	  they're	  not	  near	  the	  water,	  they	  don't	  hunt	  or	  whatever.	  So	  it's	  a	  real	  unique	  place	  to	  
be.	  Probably	  a	  lot	  of	  Southern	  states	  have	  that	  great	  opportunity	  for	  cakes.	  So	  it	  is	  a	  lot	  of	  fun."	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
09:18	  
Is	  the	  groom's	  cake	  a	  Southern	  thing?	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
09:19	  
It	  is.	  "And	  it's	  really	  neat	  because	  that	  is	  probably	  the	  only	  thing	  out	  of	  an	  entire	  wedding	  day	  
and	  wedding	  planning	  process	  that	  the	  groom	  gets	  to	  call	  his	  own.	  But	  I've	  seen	  sometimes	  
where	  the	  bride	  took	  that	  over,	  too.	  I	  mean,	  that's	  his	  thing,	  it’s	  all	  he—'cause	  she's	  picking	  out	  
the	  food,	  the	  linen,	  the	  colors,	  the	  topper,	  the	  flowers,	  and	  everything,	  and	  that's	  his—and	  so	  I	  
love	  doing	  groom's	  cakes.	  And	  I	  love	  letting	  them,	  when	  they	  come	  to	  the	  meetings,	  'cause	  
that's	  all	  they	  get,	  sometimes.	  You	  know,	  but	  one	  time	  a	  groom	  picked—I	  did	  a	  3D	  carved	  
armadillo.	  And	  that	  was	  his	  groom's	  cake.	  And	  I	  don't	  know	  what	  the	  background	  was	  of	  it,	  but	  .	  
.	  .	  and	  she	  refused	  to	  allow	  that	  at	  the	  reception.	  So	  he	  had	  this	  $300	  armadillo	  taken	  to	  the	  
restaurant	  for	  their	  rehearsal	  dinner	  dessert.	  .	  .	  He	  lost	  the	  battle.	  .	  .	  .	  It	  wasn't	  going	  to	  be	  like	  
on	  his	  back,	  looking	  gross,	  it	  was	  just	  a,	  it	  was,	  you	  know,	  a	  cute	  one—as	  cute	  as	  they	  can	  get.	  
But	  like	  I	  say,	  I	  don't	  know	  the	  significance	  of	  it.	  	  
	  
“And	  one	  guy	  catched—you	  know,	  was	  an	  alligator	  catcher,	  and	  so	  he	  wanted	  an	  alligator,	  and	  
she	  wanted	  her	  hand	  coming	  out	  of	  the	  water,	  looking	  like	  it	  was	  choking	  the	  alligator's	  neck.	  
But	  she	  also	  wanted	  me	  to	  replicate	  her	  engagement	  ring,	  and	  so	  I	  put	  rope	  around	  her	  hand,	  so	  
there's	  a	  hand	  coming	  out	  of	  the—looks	  like	  it's	  coming	  out	  of	  the	  board.	  But	  that	  was	  supposed	  
to	  be	  the	  water.	  So	  she	  got	  involved	  his	  groom's	  cake.	  So	  it's	  funny,	  sometimes	  they	  get,	  they	  
still	  get	  involved	  in	  it.	  But	  the	  groom's	  cakes,	  I	  love	  doing	  the	  groom's	  cakes,	  'cause	  they're	  
always	  fun	  most	  of	  the	  time,	  and	  hobby	  related."	  	  
	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
4	  of	  17	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
11:25	  
It	  sounds	  like	  sometimes	  there's	  a	  little	  dynamic	  playing	  out	  there.	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
11:28	  
There	  is.	  There	  are	  guys	  who	  don't	  really	  care,	  they	  don't	  have	  an	  opinion.	  And	  then	  you	  get	  
some	  who	  are	  very	  opinionated,	  they	  know	  what	  they	  want.	  And	  some	  of	  the	  guys	  have	  even	  
had	  the	  upper	  hand	  at	  the	  bridal	  consultations,	  and	  so	  he	  runs	  the	  show,	  if	  she	  doesn't	  have	  a	  
strong	  personality.	  But	  most	  of	  the	  time	  the	  bride	  runs	  it,	  and	  the	  groom	  just	  sits	  there.	  Debbie	  
has	  seen	  it	  go	  both	  ways.	  Sometimes	  the	  bride	  and	  groom	  come	  in	  together.	  One	  time,	  she	  had	  
a	  groom	  come	  in	  by	  himself.	  Debbie	  had	  already	  met	  with	  the	  bride,	  and	  he	  came	  in	  to	  finalize	  
the	  groom's	  cake,	  and	  to	  pay.	  The	  grooms	  don't	  come	  a	  lot.	  Once	  they’re	  there,	  Debbie	  tries	  to	  
get	  them	  involved.	  Once	  they're	  there,	  they	  find	  it's	  okay.	  She	  thinks	  the	  grooms	  think	  it	  will	  be	  
worse	  than	  it	  is.	  Most	  of	  the	  grooms	  who	  do	  come	  in	  have	  an	  opinion,	  and	  a	  voice.	  But	  she	  
doesn't	  see	  a	  lot	  of	  them.	  Most	  of	  the	  time	  it's	  the	  bride	  and	  her	  mom,	  or	  her	  future	  mother-­‐in-­‐
law,	  too.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  hasn't	  heard	  about	  of	  the	  tradition	  of	  the	  groom's	  godmother	  picking	  out	  and	  cutting	  
the	  cake,	  but	  there	  are	  some	  things	  that	  it's	  traditional	  for	  the	  groom	  or	  his	  family	  pay	  for—the	  
flowers,	  the	  rehearsal	  dinner,	  very	  few	  things	  are	  done	  on	  the	  groom's	  side.	  Debbie	  has	  only	  
dealt	  with	  the	  groom's	  parents.	  As	  far	  as	  cutting	  the	  cake,	  Debbie	  has	  seen	  the	  catering	  outfits	  
take	  care	  of	  cutting	  the	  cake.	  There	  are	  a	  lot	  of	  plantation	  homes	  around	  where	  weddings	  are	  
held	  and	  they	  have	  their	  own	  catering	  departments.	  They're	  used	  to	  cutting	  the	  cake,	  do	  it	  
every	  weekend.	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
13:49	  
What	  is	  it	  like	  when	  the	  bride	  orders	  the	  groom's	  cake?	  Debbie	  doesn't	  know	  everyone's	  story,	  
but	  she	  wishes	  more	  grooms	  would	  get	  involved.	  If	  they	  would	  just	  come	  in	  and	  look	  at	  the	  
book,	  look	  at	  the	  designs.	  But	  the	  groom	  may	  not	  have	  been	  brought	  in	  from	  the	  get-­‐go.	  So,	  in	  
that	  instance,	  by	  the	  time	  he	  comes	  in,	  a	  lot	  of	  the	  decisions	  have	  already	  been	  made.	  	  
	  
When	  the	  bride	  orders	  the	  groom's	  cake,	  most	  of	  the	  time	  she	  takes	  his	  hobbies	  into	  
consideration.	  Sometimes,	  if	  they	  haven't	  looked	  online	  at	  pictures,	  it's	  all	  hers	  and	  the	  bride	  
and	  Debbie	  will	  design	  it.	  But	  they'll	  take	  him	  into	  consideration,	  if	  he	  likes	  to	  hunt	  or	  fish	  or	  
drink	  beer.	  Looking	  around	  the	  bridal	  consultation	  room,	  she	  points	  to	  a	  cake	  and	  says,	  he	  loved	  
to	  drink	  beer	  but	  his	  passion	  is	  barbecue,	  so	  he	  wanted	  a	  barbecue	  pit	  for	  his	  groom's	  cake.	  She	  
didn't	  want	  a	  barbecue	  pit,	  so	  he	  got	  a	  beer	  barrel.	  So,	  a	  lot	  of	  times	  they'll	  start	  off	  that	  way,	  
but	  then	  the	  bride	  will	  say,	  "Nah,	  I	  don't	  like	  that	  hobby	  that	  you	  have.	  We're	  going	  to	  do	  this	  
hobby."	  
	  
A	  lot	  of	  times,	  the	  clients	  bring	  in	  photos.	  There’s	  so	  much	  available	  and	  "there's	  so	  much	  great	  
caking	  going	  on	  now,	  over	  the	  past	  years,	  with	  all	  of	  these	  cake	  shows	  just	  turning	  the	  cake	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
5	  of	  17	  
business	  into	  a	  whirlwind.	  So	  now,	  it's	  just,	  over	  the	  past	  ten	  years,	  cakes	  are	  really	  popular	  
now."	  
	  
How	  long	  has	  the	  groom's	  cake	  been	  a	  phenomenon?	  She	  thinks	  it's	  always	  been	  a	  Southern	  
thing,	  but	  she	  doesn't	  think	  it's	  always	  been	  so	  3D	  and	  hobby-­‐related	  as	  it	  has	  over	  the	  past	  ten	  
years,	  with	  all	  of	  these	  cake	  shows	  and	  really	  going	  crazy	  with	  the	  stuff.	  She	  thinks	  they	  might	  
have	  been	  more	  sheet	  cake	  based,	  before	  all	  this.	  “But	  now,	  anything	  goes	  now,	  anything	  
goes."	  
	  
What	  are	  some	  of	  the	  more	  fun	  or	  interesting	  ones	  that	  she's	  made?	  The	  armadillo	  was	  unusual	  
but	  it	  t	  was	  crazy	  because	  he	  couldn’t	  even	  have	  it	  at	  his	  own	  reception.	  I	  loved	  doing	  the	  split	  
bridal	  one,	  because	  being	  military,	  I	  loved	  that	  one.	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
16:46	  
Split	  cakes;	  Working	  with	  military	  families	  
In	  the	  case	  of	  a	  split	  cake,	  the	  bride	  and	  groom	  are	  sharing	  the	  cake—half	  is	  his	  and	  half	  is	  hers.	  
What	  is	  this	  called?	  Debbie	  thinks	  it	  might	  be	  called	  a	  Bride	  and	  Groom	  Cake.	  Unless	  the	  bride	  
doesn't	  like	  his	  hobbies—she	  will	  have	  to	  approve.	  Debbie	  tells	  the	  story	  of	  a	  couple	  who	  were	  
originally	  going	  to	  come	  in	  for	  a	  simply	  decorated,	  generic	  traditional	  split	  cake,	  had	  it	  already	  
locked	  into	  their	  planning.	  He	  came	  in	  to	  the	  appointment	  kicking	  and	  screaming,	  according	  to	  
the	  fiancée.	  But	  when	  they	  discovered	  that	  the	  groom	  and	  Debbie	  were	  both	  military,	  it	  went	  
from	  a	  regular	  split	  cake	  design,	  to	  a	  cake	  that	  reflected	  his	  military	  career.	  And	  they	  ended	  up	  
spending	  an	  hour	  and	  a	  half	  going	  over	  the	  details	  of	  what	  was	  going	  to	  be	  on	  each	  tier.	  	  
	  
“But	  the	  best	  moving	  story	  that	  I	  enjoyed	  was,	  a	  bride	  was	  marrying	  a	  military	  man,	  and	  her	  
wedding	  was	  set	  for	  January.	  He	  found	  out	  in	  November	  that	  he	  was	  getting	  deployed	  sooner	  
than	  that.	  So	  they	  moved	  their	  wedding	  to	  the	  day	  after	  Thanksgiving.	  Because	  that	  was	  the	  
only	  place	  they	  could	  get	  a	  facility	  or	  something,	  I	  don't	  remember	  all	  the	  details.	  Their	  original	  
designer	  couldn't	  do	  it,	  she	  was	  going	  out	  of	  town	  Thanksgiving	  weekend.	  Came	  in	  here,	  asked	  if	  
I	  could	  do	  their	  cake.	  And	  we	  were	  open	  the	  day	  after	  Thanksgiving,	  but	  I	  think	  I	  was	  already	  
booked,	  'cause	  I	  only	  do	  one	  [wedding]	  a	  weekend.	  And	  when	  I	  found	  out	  he	  was	  military	  and	  
heard	  their	  story,	  I	  said	  ‘There	  is	  no	  way	  you	  will	  not	  have	  a	  wedding	  cake	  on	  your	  wedding	  day.’	  
And	  the	  mom	  and	  the	  bride	  cried	  at	  the	  front	  desk,	  it	  was	  really	  emotional	  for	  them,	  'cause	  they	  
finally—that	  was	  one	  weight	  [off]—'cause	  they	  had	  to	  redo	  everything.	  They	  had	  to	  change	  
everything,	  get	  a	  new,	  you	  know—everything	  got	  changed.	  .	  .	  .	  So	  I	  was	  in	  here	  all	  day	  
Thanksgiving.	  Now	  I	  was	  open	  Thanksgiving	  anyway,	  but	  I	  stayed	  in	  here	  and	  did	  their	  wedding	  
cake,	  'cause	  their	  wedding	  was	  the	  next	  day.	  And	  that	  was	  just	  a	  great	  family,	  and	  a	  .	  .	  .a	  great,	  
great	  family	  to	  work	  with.	  That	  was	  really	  cool."	  	  
	  
How	  did	  that	  feel	  for	  Debbie?	  Did	  she	  feel	  a	  sense	  of	  camaraderie?	  "Well	  I	  love	  taking	  care	  of	  
the	  military.	  And	  I	  get	  a	  lot	  of	  military	  that	  come	  in.	  And	  of	  course,	  with	  my	  military	  hat—and	  I	  
usually	  wear	  a	  pin	  that	  says	  I'm	  retired,	  and	  I	  have	  my	  retirement	  certificate	  on	  the	  wall,	  up	  by	  
the	  cash	  register.	  A	  lot	  of	  people	  see	  that.	  And	  I've	  got	  retired	  military—I	  mean,	  I'm	  a	  proud	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
6	  of	  17	  
veteran.	  And	  I,	  so	  I	  like	  to	  take	  care	  of	  the	  military,	  whether	  they're	  active	  or	  .	  .	  .	  and	  I	  get	  a	  lot	  
of	  military—active	  and	  retired—people	  that	  come	  in	  here."	  She	  doesn't	  know	  whether	  the	  word	  
is	  out,	  or	  whether	  it	  is	  a	  fluke.	  She	  likes	  to	  take	  care	  of	  them,	  gives	  them	  discounts.	  And	  the	  
police—all	  of	  the	  service	  providers.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
20:39	  
Debbie's	  military	  background	  
Debbie	  served	  in	  the	  Army,	  spending	  ten	  of	  her	  fifteen	  years	  overseas,	  including	  Germany,	  
Panama	  twice,	  Texas,	  and	  her	  last	  tour	  was	  at	  the	  Pentagon,	  which	  was	  pretty	  cool.	  She	  asks	  
whether	  LMG	  knows	  what's	  in	  the	  middle	  of	  the	  Pentagon.	  It's	  got	  a	  hollow	  center.	  Dead	  
center,	  there	  is	  a	  hot	  dog	  stand.	  You'd	  think	  they'd	  have	  a	  statue	  or	  something.	  All	  of	  the	  
building	  panels	  have	  sidewalks,	  so	  people	  would	  go	  out	  there	  to	  have	  lunch.	  That	  was	  where	  
Debbie	  retired	  from,	  it	  was	  her	  last	  duty	  station.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
21:52	  
Split	  military	  cake	  
Looking	  at	  the	  photos	  of	  the	  split	  military	  cake	  what	  is	  the	  symbolism	  on	  this	  cake?	  [photos	  
afc2014023_02280_ph18	  &	  19]	  When	  you're	  in	  the	  military,	  you	  have	  a	  couple	  of	  different	  
uniforms.	  He	  was	  an	  officer—you	  have	  officers	  and	  you	  have	  enlisted,	  two	  different	  categories,	  
in	  all	  services.	  And	  officers	  and	  enlisted	  have	  the	  opportunity	  to	  buy	  a	  very	  expensive	  dress	  
uniform,	  which	  is	  called	  "dress	  blues."	  Officers	  probably	  have	  the	  uniforms	  issued	  to	  them,	  but	  
the	  enlisted	  didn't	  when	  Debbie	  was	  in	  the	  service.	  It's	  a	  very	  snazzy	  looking	  uniform,	  and	  
officers	  have	  a	  lot	  more	  opportunities	  to	  wear	  the	  dress	  blue	  than	  the	  enlisted	  personnel.	  So	  
the	  cake	  shows	  his	  dress	  uniform.	  Debbie	  thinks	  he	  wore	  the	  dress	  blue	  on	  his	  wedding	  day.	  He	  
was	  a	  lawyer,	  had	  a	  practice,	  so	  he	  must	  not	  have	  been	  active.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  had	  him	  send	  her	  his	  top	  three	  badges,	  he	  had	  a	  Purple	  Heart.	  She	  asked	  him	  what	  hat	  
he	  wore,	  what	  color	  his	  stripe	  was,	  because	  she	  was	  less	  familiar	  with	  the	  officers'	  uniforms.	  
"When	  I	  do	  cakes,	  regardless	  of	  whatever	  it	  is,	  I	  want	  it	  to	  be	  authentic.	  You	  know,	  if	  you're	  
putting	  deer	  horns	  on	  a	  cake,	  for	  God’s	  sake,	  make	  sure	  the	  horn	  aren't	  on—I've	  seen	  cakes	  of	  
deer,	  that	  they	  put	  the	  horns	  on	  backwards.	  If	  you're	  going	  to	  do	  something,	  especially	  hobby-­‐
related,	  for	  God's	  sake,	  do	  your	  homework.	  Google	  is	  right	  there,	  and	  do	  your	  homework,	  and	  
get	  it	  right.	  You	  look	  stupid,	  if	  you're	  going	  to	  do	  a	  hobby-­‐related	  cake,	  and	  you	  didn't	  even	  
know,	  whatever.	  God,	  there’s	  an	  error—you	  can	  set	  yourself	  up	  for	  error	  on	  anything,	  you	  know,	  
anything.	  You	  know,	  it's	  like	  putting	  a	  Budweiser	  label	  with	  a	  Coors	  cap."	  LMG	  comments	  on	  
being	  surprised	  to	  see	  a	  Utah	  beer	  bottle	  in	  Debbie's	  book.	  Debbie	  says	  she	  has	  seen	  where	  
they	  put	  a	  football	  helmet,	  they	  put	  a	  baseball,	  a	  catcher's	  mitt.	  "People	  that—you	  know,	  a	  lot	  
of	  people	  may	  not	  know	  that,	  but	  you	  think	  that	  that	  groom	  doesn’t	  know	  that	  his	  cake	  was	  all	  
jacked	  up	  because	  you	  didn't	  do	  your	  homework	  and	  you	  put	  the	  wrong	  thing	  on	  there?	  So,	  
you've	  got	  to	  get	  it	  right."	  She	  shows	  LMG	  the	  armadillo	  cake	  in	  her	  book.	  	  
	  
For	  an	  architect	  groom,	  she	  wanted	  to	  know	  whether	  he	  was	  a	  commercial	  architect	  or	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
7	  of	  17	  
residential,	  to	  be	  sure	  she	  put	  the	  right	  kind	  of	  architectural	  plans	  on	  the	  cake.	  Another	  groom	  
worked	  at	  a	  chemical	  plant,	  as	  did	  Debbie's	  husband,	  so	  she	  wanted	  to	  be	  sure	  to	  get	  the	  
respirator	  right.	  Her	  husband	  brought	  home	  his	  respirator,	  so	  she	  could	  see	  it	  and	  get	  it	  right.	  
"Every	  groom's	  cake	  is	  going	  to	  need	  some	  research.	  Like	  with	  that	  that	  groom’s	  cake	  there,	  I—
some	  of	  that	  I	  knew,	  but	  I	  looked	  up	  the	  different	  hats,	  and	  I	  said,	  'What	  hat	  are	  you	  wearing?	  
Give	  me	  your	  top	  three	  medals,	  'cause	  I	  can	  only	  fit	  three.'	  He	  told	  me	  what	  they	  were,	  and	  I	  
looked	  them	  up,	  'cause	  I	  was	  familiar	  with—when	  he	  gave	  me	  the	  names.	  So	  you've	  just	  got	  to	  
do	  your	  homework.	  There's	  not	  a	  whole	  lot	  of	  homework	  to	  do	  with	  the	  wedding	  cakes.	  But	  I	  
think	  that's	  the	  biggest	  error	  I	  see	  when	  I	  google	  cakes	  online	  is,	  they	  just	  don't	  do	  their	  
homework,	  and	  they	  do	  stuff	  wrong.	  .	  .	  you've	  got	  to	  (pay	  attention).	  The	  groom's	  going	  to	  know	  
that	  you	  messed	  up	  his	  cake."	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
25:54	  
What	  did	  the	  groom	  with	  the	  armadillo	  cake	  do	  at	  the	  actual	  reception?	  Did	  he	  have	  a	  groom’s	  
cake?	  She	  doesn't	  remember.	  It	  may	  have	  been	  determined	  that	  he	  couldn’t	  have	  the	  cake	  at	  
the	  reception	  so	  late	  in	  the	  game,	  he	  might	  have	  had	  to	  go	  without.	  It	  was	  unfortunate.	  	  
	  
Does	  the	  bride	  ever	  surprise	  the	  groom	  with	  the	  groom's	  cake?	  Yes,	  one	  time	  that	  happened.	  
He	  came	  to	  the	  consultation,	  and	  she	  had	  him	  leave.	  He	  drives	  a	  dump	  truck.	  He	  loves	  his	  dump	  
truck,	  he’s	  proud	  of	  his	  job.	  So	  that	  was	  his	  groom's	  cake.	  Debbie	  shows	  a	  photo.	  That’s	  nice,	  
when	  they	  surprise	  the	  groom.	  It	  was	  a	  big	  cake.	  "The	  roads	  here	  in	  Louisiana	  are	  so	  bad,	  the	  
wheels	  were	  falling	  off,	  on	  the—they	  were	  falling	  off.	  I	  had	  someone	  go	  with	  me	  on	  that,	  and	  
she	  put	  her	  hand	  on—those	  are	  oreo	  crumbs	  for	  the	  dirt,	  'cause	  he	  drove—I	  asked	  what	  kind	  of	  
dirt	  he	  hauls,	  he	  drives	  black	  dirt."	  Debbie's	  stepdaughter's	  husband	  drives	  sand,	  so	  he	  got	  tan-­‐
colored	  graham	  cracker	  crumbs.	  So	  another	  thing,	  another	  detail.	  That's	  the	  most	  important	  
thing.	  But	  that	  was	  a	  surprise.	  
	  
How	  do	  you	  cut	  a	  cake	  like	  that?	  A	  lot	  of	  them	  won't,	  forever.	  You’ve	  just	  got	  to	  do	  it.	  They	  cut	  
a	  cake	  at	  the	  reception.	  Debbie	  made	  a	  cake	  for	  her	  nephew	  that	  was	  a	  beer	  can.	  He	  drove	  
around	  and	  showed	  it	  to	  his	  buddies	  for	  three	  days.	  He	  wouldn't	  cut	  it.	  His	  mom	  finally	  said,	  it's	  
three	  days	  now,	  if	  you're	  not	  going	  to	  cut	  it,	  I'm	  going	  to	  take	  it	  to	  work.	  Which	  she	  did.	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
28:15	  
Standards	  of	  quality	  
Debbie	  finds	  people	  out	  there	  who	  are	  so	  much	  more	  advanced	  than	  she	  is.	  She	  see	  things	  that	  
really	  impress	  her.	  She	  likes	  most	  of	  the	  things	  she	  does.	  She	  knows	  that	  she	  is	  her	  own	  worst	  
critic,	  and	  she	  is	  a	  perfectionist.	  She	  knows	  she	  puts	  a	  lot	  of	  stress	  on	  herself,	  because	  that	  is	  
how	  she	  is	  wired.	  	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
8	  of	  17	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
29:12	  
Groom's	  Cake	  
What	  does	  Debbie	  think	  the	  whole	  groom's	  phenomenon	  cake	  is	  about?	  She	  doesn’t	  know	  the	  
history	  of	  it,	  but	  she	  probably	  should.	  LMG	  is	  not	  so	  much	  looking	  for	  the	  history,	  but	  what	  it's	  
about.	  Since	  Debbie	  wasn't	  born	  in	  the	  South,	  she	  doesn't	  know	  what	  it's	  all	  about.	  She	  feels	  
that	  it's	  got	  to	  tie	  into	  the	  history	  and	  why,	  "how	  it's	  progressed	  and	  grown	  and	  went	  from	  a	  
sheet	  cake	  to	  craziness.	  You	  know,	  that's	  just	  over	  time,	  with	  cakes	  turning	  into	  what	  it	  has	  with	  
TV."	  Now	  she	  wants	  to	  look	  it	  up,	  how	  it	  all	  evolved	  and	  what	  it's	  all	  about.	  Most	  of	  the	  time	  it's	  
chocolate,	  sometimes	  not.	  She	  guesses	  that	  guys	  are	  supposed	  to	  like	  chocolate	  cake.	  The	  cakes	  
often	  have	  a	  turtle	  filling.	  LMG	  points	  out	  that	  it	  creates	  a	  contrast	  with	  the	  wedding	  cake.	  
Debbie	  points	  out	  that	  people	  eat	  two	  pieces	  of	  cake,	  too,	  at	  weddings.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
30:30	  
Split	  Cake;	  Trends	  in	  wedding	  cake	  designs;	  Delivering	  and	  cutting	  wedding	  cake;	  Educating	  
customers	  about	  how	  to	  transport	  and	  care	  for	  cakes	  
How	  long	  has	  the	  split	  or	  Bride-­‐Groom	  cake	  been	  around?	  She	  think	  it	  hasn't	  been	  that	  long,	  
only	  the	  last	  couple	  of	  years.	  The	  example	  she	  has	  in	  the	  room,	  is	  the	  original	  design	  of	  the	  split	  
cake.	  "Where	  it	  was	  that	  chocolate	  cake	  with	  that	  drizzle—that's	  like	  the	  first	  design	  that	  ever	  
came	  out,	  and	  then	  it	  started	  growing.	  And	  it's	  amazing	  now,	  because	  again,	  I've	  seen	  it	  now	  
where,	  if	  the	  groom	  was	  a	  fireman,	  it's	  decorated	  with—if	  he	  likes	  to	  hunt,	  it's	  camouflage.	  So	  
now,	  it's	  whatever	  he	  likes.	  There	  are	  probably	  a	  lot	  of	  designs	  that	  I	  haven't	  even	  seen	  yet,	  
because	  of	  all	  the	  different	  hobbies	  and	  professions	  that	  they've	  tuned	  that	  into."	  	  
	  
The	  split	  cake	  takes	  the	  place	  of	  the	  wedding	  and	  groom's	  cake.	  So	  you	  have	  to	  design	  
accordingly.	  It	  has	  to	  be	  something	  that	  can	  be	  really	  transformed	  into	  the	  format.	  Whereas	  the	  
groom's	  cake	  are	  like	  3-­‐D	  sculpture,	  what	  you	  do	  on	  the	  split	  cake,	  it	  has	  to	  fit	  on	  half	  the	  cake.	  
Debbie	  says	  that	  a	  lot	  of	  the	  time,	  the	  bride	  doesn't	  want	  to	  share	  the	  cake.	  So	  it's	  all	  about	  
how	  they	  are	  with	  the	  whole	  thing.	  A	  lot	  of	  times,	  the	  cake	  is	  the	  most	  important	  thing,	  and	  
then	  other	  times,	  it's	  not	  on	  the	  top	  of	  their	  list.	  They	  can	  be	  very	  flexible,	  very	  easy,	  don't	  have	  
much	  of	  an	  opinion.	  She	  knows	  that	  in	  spite	  of	  all	  that's	  online,	  people	  keep	  picking	  the	  same	  
designs	  on	  display	  in	  the	  wedding	  consultation	  room.	  People	  say,	  "It's	  okay,	  I'll	  just	  take	  that	  
one."	  That	  frustrates	  Debbie,	  she	  says,	  give	  me	  something	  to	  do!	  	  
	  
The	  rough	  ice,	  what	  they're	  calling	  the	  "shabby	  chic,"	  or	  "vintage"	  is	  real	  popular.	  She	  thinks	  the	  
rough	  ice	  looks	  like	  spackle,	  and	  it	  takes	  her	  ten	  minutes	  because	  it’s	  so	  easy.	  Debbie	  says	  it's	  
not	  supposed	  to	  replicate	  a	  homemade	  cake,	  but	  it's	  very	  informal.	  Burlap	  is	  a	  huge	  thing	  
now—she	  has	  been	  to	  a	  lot	  of	  showers	  and	  receptions,	  and	  there's	  a	  lot	  of	  burlap,	  and	  burlap	  is	  
all	  over	  the	  place	  in	  Hobby	  Lobby	  these	  days.	  On	  a	  wedding	  cake,	  the	  burlap	  is	  used	  as	  a	  ribbon	  
wrap	  or	  bow.	  And	  they'll	  use	  it	  in	  the	  decorations.	  It's	  not	  the	  lacy	  blingy-­‐bling.	  It	  goes	  from	  one	  
extreme	  to	  another.	  The	  informal	  designs	  are	  very	  popular	  now.	  "Vintage"	  and	  "shabby	  chic"	  
are	  the	  buzz	  words	  for	  these	  rough-­‐iced	  cakes	  these	  days.	  It	  doesn't	  give	  the	  decorator	  much	  to	  
do,	  it’s	  not	  as	  much	  fun.	  	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
9	  of	  17	  
Debbie	  mentions	  a	  cake	  she	  just	  did	  recently	  with	  many	  tiers	  and	  lots	  of	  diamonds	  on	  
everything,	  she	  loved	  working	  on	  that	  one.	  A	  lot	  of	  it	  was	  styrofoam,	  because	  she	  didn't	  need	  
all	  that	  cake.	  So	  Debbie	  covered	  the	  styrofoam—three	  out	  of	  her	  five	  tiers	  were	  styrofoam,	  but	  
she	  wanted	  a	  five-­‐tier	  cake,	  so	  she	  added	  the	  fake	  layers.	  	  
	  
When	  it	  comes	  to	  cutting	  the	  cake,	  Debbie	  tells	  the	  caterer	  which	  layers	  to	  cut—they	  try	  to	  
keep	  it	  together.	  She's	  never	  seen	  how	  they	  disassemble	  it.	  Sometimes	  she	  stays	  and	  cuts	  the	  
cake,	  if	  it	  is	  a	  wedding	  in	  her	  family.	  If	  people	  are	  at	  a	  reception,	  they	  feel	  incompetent	  to	  cut,	  
so	  they	  want	  Debbie	  to	  do	  it.	  She	  doesn't	  mind	  most	  of	  the	  time.	  But	  when	  she	  goes	  to	  a	  place	  
that	  has	  a	  professional	  catering	  staff,	  they	  do	  the	  cutting.	  Debbie	  delivers	  her	  cakes,	  fully	  
assembled,	  in	  her	  Tacoma	  truck—the	  front	  seat	  folds	  down	  to	  completely	  flat.	  She	  uses	  grip—
the	  shelf	  liner.	  She	  has	  a	  whole	  roll	  of	  it,	  and	  they	  give	  out	  squares	  of	  it	  with	  every	  cake	  that	  
goes	  out.	  The	  boxes	  slide	  around	  on	  people's	  carpet	  on	  the	  floor	  of	  the	  car.	  They	  call	  it	  "skid".	  
They	  tell	  the	  customers	  to	  put	  that	  square	  down	  under	  the	  cake	  box	  and	  it	  won't	  budge.	  They	  
also	  give	  out	  cutting	  and	  disassembling	  instructions	  with	  every	  cake	  that	  goes	  out.	  Nobody	  else	  
does	  that.	  	  
	  
So,	  the	  instructions	  include,	  how	  to	  cut	  it	  wedding	  style,	  to	  get	  the	  servings	  that	  they	  have	  
ordered.	  Most	  of	  the	  quotes	  that	  are	  given	  out	  to	  customers	  are	  based	  on	  wedding	  style	  cuts.	  
And	  if	  you	  don't	  tell	  them	  how	  to	  cut	  it,	  they'll	  cut	  great	  big	  pie	  wedges.	  And	  they'll	  take	  a	  cake	  
that's	  supposed	  to	  serve	  50,	  and	  get	  20,	  and	  then	  they'll	  come	  back	  and	  say,	  "You	  told	  me	  .	  .	  ."	  
So	  they	  educate	  every	  customer	  who	  goes	  out	  with	  the	  tiered	  cake,	  how	  to	  disassemble	  it,	  how	  
to	  store	  it.	  She	  gives	  the	  bride	  special	  instructions	  on	  how	  to	  care	  for	  the	  top	  layer.	  There's	  a	  
sticker	  on	  the	  box	  on	  how	  to	  freeze	  it,	  wrap	  it,	  freeze	  it,	  and	  thaw	  it.	  LMG	  asks	  for	  a	  copy,	  and	  
Debbie	  said	  she'd	  be	  happy	  to	  give	  it	  to	  her.	  	  
	  
It's	  all	  about	  educating	  people.	  At	  the	  other	  bakery	  where	  she	  worked,	  they	  didn't	  tell	  anyone	  
anything.	  They'd	  hand	  them	  a	  two-­‐tiered	  cake	  and	  they'd	  hop	  in	  their	  convertible,	  put	  it	  on	  
their	  lap,	  and	  they'd	  come	  back	  an	  hour	  later	  because	  they	  crashed	  with	  it.	  Then	  the	  bakery	  
staff	  has	  to	  stop	  what	  they're	  doing,	  with	  all	  the	  other	  orders	  they	  have,	  to	  fix	  damage	  that	  
could	  have	  been	  avoided.	  So	  Debbie	  is	  huge	  on	  educating	  people,	  whether	  the	  cake	  needs	  to	  be	  
refrigerated.	  You	  have	  to	  tell	  people	  how	  to	  drive	  with	  the	  cake,	  how	  to	  store	  it.	  	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
38:24	  
St.	  Joseph's	  Day	  Altars;	  Making	  the	  rosary	  cake	  for	  the	  Cypress	  Springs	  Mercedarian	  Center	  
St.	  Joseph's	  Day	  altar	  
Debbie	  made	  a	  rosary	  cake	  for	  the	  St.	  Joseph's	  Day	  altar	  at	  Cypress	  Springs	  Mercedarian	  Center.	  
This	  year	  was	  the	  first	  time	  she	  made	  cakes	  for	  a	  public	  altar.	  She	  has	  been	  to	  many	  St.	  Joseph's	  
altars	  in	  private	  homes	  in	  West	  Baton	  Rouge.	  West	  Baton	  Rouge	  Parish	  has	  a	  lot	  of	  Catholic	  
Italians,	  and	  so	  she	  has	  been	  to	  a	  lot	  of	  altars	  there.	  Debbie	  is	  Italian	  Catholic,	  but	  had	  never	  
been	  to	  the	  altars	  before	  coming	  to	  Louisiana.	  The	  St.	  Joseph’s	  altar	  tradition	  is	  not	  all	  over.	  She	  
thinks	  it's	  really	  popular	  around	  Louisiana,	  because	  she	  thinks	  New	  Orleans	  is	  where	  it	  started.	  
The	  Italians	  came	  in	  from	  Italy	  and	  New	  Orleans	  was	  their	  port,	  and	  she	  thinks	  a	  lot	  of	  this	  is	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
10	  of	  17	  
very	  Louisiana	  based.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  thought	  she	  was	  Sicilian,	  that	  that	  was	  her	  roots,	  but	  she	  recently	  looked	  at	  her	  family	  
tree	  and	  her	  family	  came	  from	  Certa,	  which	  is	  not	  as	  far	  south	  as	  Sicily.	  The	  history	  of	  the	  St.	  
Joseph's	  altar	  is	  very	  interesting.	  She	  had	  been	  to	  many	  in	  homes.	  She	  usually	  made	  the	  cross	  
cake,	  which	  would	  be	  the	  centerpiece	  on	  the	  altar.	  She	  made	  them	  for	  friends'	  home	  altars,	  for	  
St.	  Joseph's	  altars.	  She	  used	  to	  go	  to	  friends’	  home	  altars.	  She'd	  never	  been	  to	  a	  church	  type	  of	  
St.	  Joseph's	  altar.	  A	  lot	  of	  churches	  will	  have	  the	  altars	  in	  their	  halls.	  She	  said	  that	  Cypress	  
Springs	  altar	  was	  amazing,	  there	  wouldn't	  be	  a	  wide-­‐angle	  lens	  big	  enough	  to	  capture	  it,	  it	  was	  
huge.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Grimes,	  who	  runs	  the	  Cypress	  Springs	  altar,	  asked	  her	  friend	  Celie	  Pizzolato	  if	  she	  knew	  
anybody,	  because	  the	  woman	  who	  had	  done	  the	  rosary	  cake	  for	  years	  was	  not	  available.	  Celie's	  
daughter	  and	  Debbie's	  husband's	  daughter	  are	  college	  roommates,	  so,	  Celie	  was	  familiar	  with	  
Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake.	  Celie	  came	  into	  the	  shop	  and	  asked	  Debbie	  if	  she	  would	  be	  interested,	  
and	  Debbie	  said,	  yes,	  yes,	  yes.	  Debbie	  had	  never	  seen	  a	  rosary	  cake,	  she	  didn't	  know	  what	  it	  
was.	  She	  thinks	  that	  the	  home	  altars	  don't	  have	  the	  rosary	  cakes	  because	  they	  take	  up	  so	  much	  
room.	  You	  need	  to	  make	  the	  same	  amount	  of	  beads	  that	  are	  on	  a	  rosary.	  	  
	  
So	  she	  had	  to	  google	  and	  investigate,	  because	  there	  are	  different	  things	  on	  a	  rosary	  that	  mean	  
different	  things.	  The	  cake	  ended	  up	  being	  composed	  of	  fifty-­‐five	  beads.	  There	  are	  mystery	  
beads	  also,	  she	  is	  not	  sure	  whether	  it	  is	  part	  of	  the	  fifty	  five.	  What	  are	  the	  mystery	  beads?	  
Debbie	  is	  not	  sure,	  although	  she	  attended	  Catholic	  school.	  So	  she	  decided	  to	  do	  the	  beads	  with	  
cupcakes,	  because	  they	  are	  round.	  Debbie	  was	  sent	  a	  photo	  of	  the	  table	  that	  they	  would	  be	  
using.	  Her	  husband	  really	  helped	  her	  design.	  They	  had	  to	  set	  it	  up	  on	  site.	  They	  ended	  up	  
getting	  a	  different	  table,	  so	  they	  had	  to	  re-­‐evaluate	  the	  layout.	  It	  was	  really	  neat	  doing	  that.	  	  
	  
The	  design	  replicated	  a	  rosary.	  It	  had	  the	  cross,	  a	  cake.	  Her	  husband	  made	  the	  crown	  of	  thorns	  
out	  of	  chocolate-­‐covered	  pretzel	  sticks.	  They	  rolled	  pretzel	  sticks	  in	  a	  bowl	  of	  chocolate	  and	  he	  
laid	  them	  in	  a	  circle.	  And	  it	  looked	  like	  a	  crown	  of	  thorns,	  and	  it	  lay	  on	  the	  cross.	  Then	  they	  
started	  making	  a	  replica	  of	  a	  rosary,	  just	  how	  it	  would	  lay	  on	  a	  table	  naturally,	  not	  perfect,	  it	  
had	  curves.	  The	  design	  on	  the	  cross	  was	  a	  really	  bright	  floral	  spray	  in	  different	  colors.	  She	  took	  
one	  of	  the	  colors	  from	  the	  floral	  spray,	  and	  in	  between	  each	  mystery	  bead	  are	  ten	  beads.	  So	  
she	  had	  ten	  yellow	  beads,	  but	  that	  was	  a	  butter	  cream	  rosette	  swirl.	  Then	  she	  did	  a	  mystery	  
bead.	  And	  in	  the	  mystery	  bead,	  before	  she	  put	  the	  swirl	  on,	  she	  hid	  the	  base	  of	  tea	  lights	  in	  the	  
icing,	  so	  the	  only	  thing	  visible	  was	  the	  flame	  sticking	  out	  of	  the	  swirl.	  So	  it	  looked	  like	  it	  was	  lit.	  
After	  the	  mystery	  bead	  were	  ten	  more	  beads,	  with	  another	  color	  that	  she	  pulled	  from	  the	  floral	  
spray	  on	  the	  cross.	  Normally	  on	  a	  rosary	  you	  have	  a	  little	  metal	  piece	  right	  above	  the	  cross,	  
where	  they	  split.	  And	  that	  was	  a	  mini	  heart-­‐shaped	  cake	  that	  she	  had	  air	  brushed	  gold,	  and	  it	  
looked	  like	  metal.	  And	  it	  had	  a	  gold	  cross	  on	  it,	  and	  that's	  where	  the	  beads	  split	  off	  and	  took	  off	  
on	  their	  separate	  trails.	  Pretty	  cool.	  That	  was	  an	  amazing	  day,	  looking	  at	  all	  that	  was	  on	  the	  
altar.	  She	  said	  she	  would	  send	  photos	  to	  LMG.	  
	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
11	  of	  17	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
45:14	  
The	  St.	  Joseph's	  Day	  Altar	  Tradition	  
When	  people	  make	  St.	  Joseph's	  altars	  in	  their	  homes,	  the	  priest	  would	  come	  to	  the	  home	  and	  
bless	  the	  altar.	  Debbie	  didn't	  stay	  for	  all	  of	  the	  Cypress	  Springs	  altar,	  so	  she	  doesn't	  know	  what	  
the	  agenda	  was	  at	  this	  one,	  but	  it	  was	  big.	  In	  the	  homes,	  they	  bless	  the	  altar.	  At	  the	  home	  altars	  
she	  attended	  they	  would	  have	  a	  spaghetti	  meal,	  and	  then	  they	  would	  eat	  the	  food	  off	  the	  altar.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  says	  that	  for	  the	  Cypress	  Springs	  altar,	  there	  was	  a	  whole	  agenda	  for	  the	  day.	  Debbie	  
thinks	  they	  served	  food,	  they	  had	  a	  caterer.	  She	  didn't	  think	  there	  was	  a	  lot	  to	  eat	  because	  the	  
breads	  on	  the	  altars	  are	  very	  decorative,	  she	  doesn't	  think	  that	  you	  eat	  them.	  They're	  made	  
from	  an	  edible	  material,	  but	  she	  doesn't	  think	  you	  want	  to	  eat	  them.	  She	  saw	  cakes	  there	  that	  
were	  pretty,	  had	  an	  edible	  image	  icing	  on	  it.	  Debbie	  was	  told	  that	  whatever	  didn't	  get	  eaten	  
that	  day	  would	  be	  taken	  to	  various	  shelters,	  homes	  for	  the	  homeless,	  it	  would	  be	  distributed.	  
Debbie	  didn't	  donate	  the	  cake,	  because	  she	  was	  contacted	  by	  a	  third	  party	  who	  called	  and	  said	  
she	  wanted	  to	  donate	  the	  cake,	  so	  she	  paid	  Debbie	  make	  it,	  so	  it	  would	  be	  her	  donation.	  Most	  
of	  the	  items	  at	  the	  altar	  are	  donated—that	  is	  part	  of	  the	  tradition.	  	  
	  
At	  the	  time	  Debbie	  was	  making	  cross	  cakes	  for	  home	  altars	  in	  West	  Baton	  Rouge,	  she	  was	  
already	  getting	  involved	  in	  baking.	  Probably	  at	  the	  earlier	  altars	  she	  attended,	  she	  had	  probably	  
just	  started	  with	  the	  cake	  decorating.	  These	  cakes	  were	  all	  donated,	  because	  they	  were	  friends'	  
altars.	  	  
	  
Does	  eating	  the	  cake	  impart	  any	  kind	  of	  spiritual	  significance	  or	  blessing?	  It's	  possible,	  but	  she	  
had	  never	  heard	  of	  St.	  Joseph	  altars	  until	  she	  moved	  to	  Louisiana,	  she	  doesn't	  know	  all	  about	  it.	  
She	  doesn't	  know	  whether,	  since	  the	  food	  is	  blessed,	  if	  that	  kind	  of	  transfers	  over	  and	  you're	  
expected	  to	  partake	  in	  that	  whole	  environment.	  When	  she	  read	  about	  it,	  it's	  the	  coolest	  history,	  
but	  she	  doesn't	  know	  the	  answer	  to	  that	  question.	  She	  finds	  the	  tradition	  amazing.	  She	  liked	  
going	  to	  a	  big	  altar,	  and	  she	  can	  only	  imagine	  that	  the	  ones	  in	  New	  Orleans	  are	  huge,	  since	  
that's	  where	  it	  started,	  that’s	  the	  root.	  	  
	  
Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
49:14	  
LMG	  remembers	  that	  when	  she	  first	  met	  Debbie,	  she	  said	  that	  she	  wished	  she'd	  found	  baking	  
as	  an	  occupation	  sooner.	  Please	  say	  more	  about	  that.	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
49:18	  
Love	  of	  her	  profession	  
Debbie	  opened	  the	  bakery	  in	  April	  of	  2014,	  when	  she	  was	  52	  years	  old.	  She	  thinks	  that	  most	  
people	  her	  age	  are	  not	  doing	  something	  "this	  committed."	  She	  enjoys	  it,	  loves	  decorating,	  but	  
she	  hadn't	  known	  she	  could	  do	  it.	  She	  always	  liked	  art	  and	  music,	  but	  didn't	  know	  that	  she	  
would	  like	  cake	  decorating.	  So	  she	  wishes	  she	  had	  been	  enjoying	  it	  all	  these	  years,	  although	  she	  
might	  have	  burned	  out.	  She	  wishes	  she	  could	  have	  started	  it	  younger	  earlier,	  to	  have	  enjoyed	  it	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
12	  of	  17	  
more,	  because	  you	  never	  know,	  she’s	  at	  the	  age	  where	  arthritis	  could	  kick	  in	  any	  time,	  whereas	  
girls	  in	  their	  twenties	  have	  so	  many	  years	  ahead	  of	  them.	  It's	  like,	  what	  do	  you	  want	  to	  be	  when	  
you	  grow	  up?	  "I	  finally	  found	  that	  out	  at	  53.	  I	  just	  wish	  I'd	  have	  found	  it	  earlier."	  
	  
What	  does	  she	  love	  about	  the	  work?	  She	  likes	  making	  pretty	  things,	  she	  likes	  making	  kids'	  
cakes,	  and	  working	  with	  color.	  The	  work	  comes	  easily	  to	  her,	  but	  it	  was	  a	  long	  road	  getting	  
there,	  because	  she	  was	  very	  cake-­‐intimidated	  and	  scared	  to	  death.	  It	  took	  her	  a	  few	  years	  to	  
really	  get	  comfortable	  and	  confident.	  In	  general,	  she	  is	  a	  very	  confident	  person,	  but	  cake	  scared	  
her.	  Why	  is	  that?	  Maybe	  because	  it	  can	  break—she	  knows	  what	  can	  happen	  if	  she	  drops	  it	  or	  
slams	  on	  her	  brakes.	  That's	  why	  she	  doesn't	  like	  to	  deliver,	  because	  she	  is	  so	  over-­‐cautious.	  
That's	  why	  non-­‐decorators	  are	  sometimes	  the	  best	  deliverers.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
52:11	  
Reflecting	  back	  over	  her	  first	  year	  in	  business;	  Customer	  support	  and	  customer	  relationships	  
What	  are	  some	  of	  her	  thoughts,	  looking	  back	  over	  the	  first	  year	  in	  business	  as	  Another	  Piece	  of	  
Cake?	  "Being	  in	  this	  new	  small	  town	  is	  not	  what	  I	  expected.	  This	  is	  a	  town	  that	  totally	  believes	  in	  
shopping	  local,	  staying	  local,	  and	  supporting	  local	  businesses.	  So	  day	  one,	  I	  was	  welcomed	  with	  
open	  arms.	  And	  that	  has	  been—I	  didn’t	  expect	  that,	  at	  all.	  So	  that's	  been	  very,	  very	  neat	  
process.	  Still	  learning	  as	  I	  go,	  and	  finding	  better	  ways	  to	  do	  things.	  I	  really	  like	  it	  when	  that	  
happens.	  But	  the	  community	  has	  been	  amazing.	  I	  think	  the	  community	  support	  has	  been	  the	  
best	  part	  of	  it	  all."	  She	  feels	  like	  she	  is	  forming	  relationships.	  "I	  know	  what	  they	  eat,	  I	  know	  
what	  they	  drink.	  As	  soon	  as	  they	  walk	  in,	  I	  pull—'cause	  we	  have	  a	  lot	  of	  regulars	  and	  they	  get	  
the	  same	  thing	  all	  the	  time.	  I	  have	  a	  group	  of	  guys	  that	  come	  in	  every	  Tuesday.	  They	  sit	  at	  this	  
table.	  Four	  of	  'em	  eat	  sausage	  biscuits	  and	  coffee,	  and	  then	  one	  guy	  eats	  a	  cinnamon	  roll.	  And	  
they	  stay	  here	  for	  an	  hour	  or	  two	  every	  Tuesday.	  I	  get	  them	  their	  own	  coffee	  pot.	  They	  reach	  
behind	  the	  curtain	  and	  get	  their	  napkins.	  They	  clean	  the	  table	  when	  they	  leave.	  And	  as	  soon	  as	  
we	  see	  their	  trucks	  pulling	  in,	  we	  start	  getting	  the	  coffee	  out.	  I	  mean,	  there's	  quite	  a	  few	  
people—I	  hate	  that	  I	  don't	  know	  their	  names,	  'cause	  I'm	  terrible	  with	  names.	  'Cause	  we	  don't	  
ever	  get	  introduced.	  I've	  got	  my	  name	  on	  my	  shirt.	  So,	  I'm	  not	  good	  with	  their	  names,	  but	  I	  know	  
what	  they	  eat.	  .	  .	  .We	  have	  kids	  that	  come	  before	  school	  sometimes—before	  school,	  will	  come	  
here	  and	  eat.	  And	  I	  have	  a	  lot	  of	  ladies	  that	  come	  and	  sit	  and	  visit	  with	  their	  friends,	  and	  have	  a	  
piece	  of	  cake	  and	  coffee.	  So	  I	  love	  the	  atmosphere,	  it's	  a	  very,	  you	  know,	  mild	  earth	  tone	  colors,	  
and	  I	  like	  the	  antiqueness,	  you	  know,	  the	  rust	  and	  the	  tin	  and	  the	  metal.	  I	  like	  the	  antique	  look,	  
so	  I	  feel	  it's	  a	  comfortable	  environment,	  people	  feel	  comfortable	  in	  here,	  and	  they	  stay,	  and	  they	  
eat."	  	  
	  
Does	  she	  feel	  she	  is	  a	  part	  of	  people's	  lives?	  She	  does.	  "It's	  fun	  when	  you	  do	  a	  girl's	  graduation	  
cake,	  and	  then	  you	  do	  her—she	  got	  engaged,	  and	  then	  you	  do	  her	  engagement	  cake.	  And	  then	  
you	  do	  her	  wedding	  cake,	  and	  all	  the	  showers	  leading	  up	  to	  the	  wedding.	  And	  then	  she	  got	  
pregnant.	  You	  do	  her	  baby	  showers.	  And	  now	  I'm	  up	  to	  some	  of	  their	  third,	  their	  child's	  third	  
birthday.	  You	  know,	  you	  grow	  with	  them."	  These	  relationships	  predate	  her	  opening	  the	  store.	  	  
	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
13	  of	  17	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
55:05	  
Gender	  Reveal	  Cakes	  
Debbie	  does	  gender	  reveal	  cakes	  all	  the	  time.	  They're	  really	  fun.	  There	  are	  a	  couple	  of	  different	  
ways	  to	  do	  them.	  Most	  of	  the	  time,	  the	  cake	  is	  white	  cake	  but	  the	  filling	  will	  be	  pink	  or	  blue.	  
Sometimes	  the	  customers	  want	  them	  to	  color	  the	  batter	  and	  leave	  the	  filling	  in	  a	  generic	  color.	  
But	  she	  gets	  them	  almost	  every	  week.	  She'll	  get	  a	  call	  from	  the	  doctor's	  office.	  Or	  sometimes	  
someone	  will	  come	  in	  with	  a	  taped-­‐up	  envelope—the	  mom.	  She	  got	  it	  from	  the	  sonogram,	  and	  
walks	  it	  in.	  Or	  most	  of	  the	  time	  they'll	  get	  a	  call	  from	  the	  doctor’s	  office.	  They'll	  say,	  'I'm	  calling	  
for	  Mary,	  she's	  going	  to	  have	  a	  girl.'	  And	  so	  we	  make	  the	  filling	  blue	  or	  pink.	  The	  parents	  don't	  
find	  out	  until	  they	  cut	  the	  cake.	  Most	  of	  the	  time,	  the	  couple	  doesn't	  know,	  Debbie	  is	  the	  only	  
one	  that	  knows.	  They	  need	  to	  be	  very	  careful	  when	  they	  put	  the	  filling	  on	  the	  order	  form.	  They	  
block	  out	  the	  filling	  color,	  because	  you	  never	  know	  who's	  going	  to	  pick	  it	  up—it	  could	  be	  one	  of	  
the	  parents.	  When	  mom	  and	  dad	  cut	  that	  cake	  at	  the	  party	  and	  take	  the	  entire	  wedge	  out,	  they	  
find	  out,	  along	  with	  the	  entire	  group,	  what	  they're	  going	  to	  have.	  “I	  love	  that.”	  	  
	  
She	  doesn't	  know	  when	  it	  started.	  Another	  gender	  reveal	  tradition	  is,	  lot	  of	  times	  they'll	  get	  a	  
box	  and	  fill	  it	  with	  either	  pink	  or	  blue	  balloons,	  and	  release	  them.	  She	  doesn't	  know	  when	  the	  
cake	  reveal	  became	  popular,	  but	  they	  do	  them	  a	  lot.	  Is	  there	  ritual	  about	  it?	  Often	  times	  the	  
mom	  or	  dad	  will	  pick	  up	  the	  cake.	  At	  the	  party,	  they'll	  gather	  everyone	  around,	  okay,	  everybody	  
it's	  time	  to	  cut	  the	  cake.	  Sometimes	  they'll	  have	  people	  wear	  shirts—what	  do	  you	  think	  we're	  
going	  to	  have?	  Wear	  pink	  or	  blue.	  And	  so	  people	  will	  come	  to	  the	  party	  in	  pink	  or	  blue	  shirts,	  
you	  know,	  'I'm	  Team	  Girl	  or	  Team	  Boy.'	  It's	  really	  cool.	  Debbie	  will	  be	  the	  only	  one	  that	  knows	  
the	  gender	  of	  that	  baby	  besides	  the	  doctor.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
58:01	  
Debris	  Cake	  
LMG	  asks	  if	  Debbie	  has	  heard	  of	  this?	  LMG	  had	  heard	  about	  it	  at	  a	  party,	  that	  it's	  a	  cake	  made	  
from	  remnants	  of	  other	  cakes?	  She	  hasn't	  heard	  of	  that.	  She	  hasn't	  heard	  of	  the	  Millionaire	  
Cake	  either—LMG	  was	  told	  it	  is	  very	  rich.	  Debbie	  thinks	  someone	  was	  teasing	  LMG!	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
58:37	  
Cake	  Tacos;	  Icing	  Shots	  
Cake	  tacos	  are	  Debbie's	  invention,	  or	  the	  idea	  might	  have	  come	  from	  someplace	  else,	  she’s	  not	  
sure.	  It's	  the	  cake	  top,	  which	  most	  people	  throw	  away,	  filled	  with	  icing/filling.	  They	  also	  make	  
cake	  balls	  out	  of	  the	  cake	  tops,	  which	  are	  also	  very	  popular.	  For	  the	  cake	  tacos,	  they	  fold	  over	  
the	  cake	  top	  and	  don't	  ice	  the	  outside,	  so	  you	  see	  the	  roughness	  of	  the	  cake	  top.	  They	  put	  the	  
filling	  that	  corresponds	  with	  that	  cake	  type	  inside.	  If	  she	  cuts	  the	  top	  of	  a	  German	  chocolate	  
cake,	  she'll	  fill	  it	  with	  the	  coconut	  pecan	  filling.	  If	  it's	  a	  red	  velvet	  taco,	  they	  fill	  it	  with	  cream	  
cheese.	  They	  do	  a	  foldover,	  put	  it	  in	  a	  clamshell,	  and	  garnish	  it	  pretty,	  and	  people	  love	  it.	  
People	  don't	  eat	  it	  with	  their	  hands,	  it	  would	  be	  too	  sticky.	  People	  just	  open	  the	  clamshell	  and	  
get	  a	  fork.	  	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
14	  of	  17	  
Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  also	  offers	  “icing	  shots.”	  She	  has	  a	  sign	  that	  says	  Happy	  Hour,	  every	  day,	  
all	  day.	  They	  get	  the	  little	  soufflé	  ups,	  and	  they	  fill	  them	  with	  fillings	  or	  different	  icing	  flavors.	  
They're	  25	  cents.	  And	  people	  stand	  at	  the	  counter	  like	  they	  would	  at	  the	  bar,	  and	  they	  squeeze	  
the	  soufflé	  cup	  into	  their	  mouth	  like	  they	  would	  a	  jello	  shot,	  and	  they	  get	  their	  little	  sugar	  rush.	  
She	  might	  have	  gotten	  the	  idea	  off	  of	  Google.	  Does	  she	  think	  that	  some	  people	  like	  cake	  or	  icing	  
better?	  There	  are	  people	  who	  go	  both	  ways—some	  don't	  like	  a	  lot	  of	  icing,	  and	  others	  will	  
stand	  at	  the	  counter	  and	  do	  icing	  shots.	  The	  icing	  shots	  are	  a	  way	  for	  people	  to	  try	  different	  
fillings,	  some	  they	  may	  be	  afraid	  to	  try.	  There	  are	  a	  lot	  of	  filling	  flavors	  to	  try,	  not	  as	  many	  
icings.	  Sometimes	  people	  will	  get	  a	  container	  of	  15	  icing	  shots	  to	  take	  back	  to	  the	  office.	  People	  
love	  it,	  it's	  fun.	  It's	  not	  a	  lot	  of	  icing,	  just	  a	  little.	  This	  is	  not	  her	  invention—she	  got	  it	  off	  of	  
Google.	  She	  loves	  Google.	  She	  doesn't	  feel	  she	  is	  creative,	  she	  finds	  other	  ideas	  elsewhere.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
1:01:30	  
The	  bakery	  business,	  catering	  to	  a	  necessary	  luxury;	  knowing	  your	  market	  
"The	  thing	  about	  a	  bakery,	  it	  is	  a	  luxury	  purchase.	  But	  if	  someone	  doesn't	  like	  grocery	  store	  
desserts,	  or	  if	  someone	  does	  not	  know	  how	  to	  bake,	  they	  are	  going	  to	  buy	  a	  birthday	  cake	  for	  
their	  child	  or	  their	  significant—a	  loved	  one.	  Now,	  whether	  they	  buy	  it	  here,	  or	  they	  need	  to	  go	  to	  
a	  lower	  cost	  is	  their	  choice.	  But	  we	  try	  to	  keep	  our	  prices	  reasonable,	  so	  we	  can	  offer	  a	  quality	  
product	  and	  not	  bust	  the	  bank.	  But	  there	  are	  so	  many	  bakery	  holidays.	  Oh	  my	  God!	  Oh	  my	  
God—bakery	  holidays,	  there's	  one	  every—you've	  got	  nurse—everything,	  you	  can	  celebrate	  it	  
with	  a	  treat.	  You've	  got	  Nurses	  Day,	  you’ve	  got	  Teachers	  Day.	  Plus	  the	  normal	  holidays	  that	  
we're	  familiar	  with—Christmas,	  Father's	  Day,	  Thanksgiving,	  Easter.	  But	  there's	  a	  lot	  of,	  you	  
know—Dr.	  Seuss	  has	  a	  birthday.	  And	  they	  celebrate	  it	  at	  schools.	  And	  I'll	  be	  doing	  Dr.	  Seuss	  
cookies.	  It	  might	  be	  	  Kermit	  the	  Frog	  Day,	  and	  we'll	  do	  .	  .	  .	  I	  don’t	  know.	  But	  everybody	  has	  a	  
birthday,	  and	  so	  they	  celebrate—people	  that	  like	  all	  of	  these	  characters.	  It	  was	  Mario	  Day—I	  
mean,	  you	  name	  it,	  there's	  a	  day	  for	  something.	  Cupcake—National	  Cupcake	  Day.	  There	  are	  so	  
many	  opportunities	  for	  sweets	  and	  treats."	  	  
	  
How	  does	  Debbie	  find	  out	  about	  these	  holidays?	  She	  has	  a	  calendar	  that	  one	  of	  her	  vendors	  
created,	  with	  odd	  holidays	  that	  you	  may	  not	  know	  of.	  But	  if	  you	  google	  national	  holidays,	  you're	  
going	  to	  find	  them	  already	  labeled.	  Someone's	  made	  a	  national	  holiday	  out	  of	  everything.	  “But	  I	  
make	  a	  list	  of	  everything—oh	  gosh,	  communion,	  first	  communion.	  Baptisms.	  You	  know,	  babies	  
are	  getting	  baptized	  all	  the	  time.	  There's	  just	  so	  many	  bakery	  holidays.	  Tons	  and	  tons	  and	  tons	  
of	  them.	  So	  you’ve	  just	  got	  to	  watch	  and	  look	  at	  where	  you're	  setting	  up	  your	  shop,	  what	  your	  
prices	  are,	  what's	  your	  target—who	  do	  you	  want	  to	  target."	  She	  talks	  about	  being	  careful	  not	  to	  
box	  yourself	  into	  a	  certain	  demographic.	  If	  you	  don’t	  want	  the	  grocery	  store	  crowd,	  then	  you	  
market	  yourself	  accordingly.	  It	  all	  depends	  on	  where	  you're	  located	  and	  who	  your	  target	  
audience	  is.	  	  
	  
There	  is	  another	  bakery	  across	  town,	  but	  they	  target	  different	  demographics,	  so	  that	  it	  works	  
out	  well	  for	  both.	  And	  they're	  far	  enough	  apart,	  that	  their	  customers	  choose	  accordingly.	  
People	  who	  live	  right	  behind	  Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  are	  not	  going	  to	  drive	  across	  town	  to	  buy	  a	  
piece	  of	  cake.	  It’s	  all	  about	  placement.	  Who	  is	  her	  demographic?	  The	  elderly.	  They	  are	  her	  case	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
15	  of	  17	  
purchasers.	  They'll	  come	  in	  and	  get	  items	  out	  of	  the	  case	  a	  lot.	  They	  want	  their	  cakes	  by	  the	  
slice,	  they	  want	  small	  portions	  they	  can	  share.	  Her	  younger	  crowd	  will	  order	  her	  high	  dollar	  
items—on	  the	  phone,	  on	  the	  website,	  via	  e-­‐mail.	  But	  her	  older	  crowd	  are	  coming	  in	  and	  buying	  
things	  out	  of	  the	  case.	  She	  has	  a	  lot	  of	  customers	  who	  are	  over	  forty.	  	  
	  
1:05:01	  
Making	  wedding	  cake	  an	  everyday	  item	  
What	  is	  Debbie’s	  specialty,	  what	  is	  she	  known	  for?	  She	  markets	  her	  white	  cake	  as	  wedding	  
cake.	  She	  puts	  almond	  in	  the	  cake	  and	  in	  the	  butter	  cream	  icing.	  So	  you	  can	  get	  a	  piece	  of	  
wedding	  cake	  any	  day	  at	  the	  bakery.	  People	  love	  that	  because	  they	  don't	  want	  to	  wait	  for	  a	  
wedding	  to	  have	  a	  piece	  of	  wedding	  cake.	  Almond	  is	  indicative	  of	  a	  wedding	  cake.	  That	  is	  an	  
ingredient	  that	  makes	  wedding	  cake.	  So	  she	  puts	  in	  all	  of	  her	  wedding	  cake	  and	  the	  butter	  
cream.	  People	  love	  that,	  it's	  real	  popular	  at	  Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  does	  king	  cakes	  all	  year	  round.	  They	  do	  them	  for	  holidays	  and	  decorate	  them	  
accordingly.	  They're	  making	  them	  for	  Easter	  now,	  and	  in	  the	  center	  hole,	  they’re	  making	  a	  
green	  nest	  made	  of	  coconut,	  and	  they	  have	  little	  peeps	  eggs.	  They	  did	  them	  for	  St.	  Patrick's	  
day.	  This	  year	  was	  their	  first	  king	  cake	  season.	  They	  do	  them	  per	  order	  throughout	  the	  year,	  but	  
whenever	  there's	  a	  holiday,	  they	  decorate	  them	  to	  that	  holiday.	  They	  have	  a	  bunch	  of	  orders	  
for	  Sunday.	  They'll	  be	  open	  Easter	  Sunday.	  The	  only	  day	  they	  close	  is	  Christmas.	  For	  the	  Easter	  
king	  cake,	  they	  use	  the	  Easter	  colors	  for	  the	  decoration,	  and	  then	  in	  the	  center	  where	  they	  hole	  
is,	  they	  use	  coconut	  flakes	  that	  they	  airbrush	  green	  to	  make	  it	  look	  like	  a	  nest.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
1:07:29	  
Closing;	  Relationship	  dynamics	  playing	  out	  in	  cake	  negotiations	  
Debbie	  will	  send	  LMG	  some	  photos.	  She	  walks	  away	  from	  the	  interview	  area	  and	  can	  be	  heard	  
talking	  to	  customers	  in	  the	  background.	  She	  has	  cookie	  tins	  for	  people	  to	  put	  their	  cookies	  in.	  
For	  Easter,	  she	  made	  "wacky	  egg"	  cookies—eggs	  with	  funny	  faces	  iced	  on.	  She	  brings	  them	  to	  
LMG	  to	  see.	  She	  makes	  almond	  butter	  sugar	  cookies,	  and	  they	  are	  very	  popular.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  will	  send	  images	  of	  the	  rosary	  cake,	  and	  the	  altar,	  the	  groom's	  cakes,	  whatever	  LMG	  is	  
interested	  in.	  	  
	  
It's	  okay	  for	  LMG	  to	  use	  the	  armadillo	  cake	  story	  in	  the	  article,	  since	  there	  were	  no	  names	  
mentioned;	  Debbie	  can't	  remember	  who	  it	  was	  any	  more.	  	  
	  
Do	  the	  stories,	  the	  dynamics	  of	  the	  cake	  selection	  have	  bearing	  on	  the	  nature	  of	  the	  marriage?	  
Referring	  to	  the	  armadillo	  story,	  Debbie	  says	  ironically,	  "Oh	  I	  know,	  it’s	  like,	  oh	  boy,	  that's	  a	  real	  
good	  start,	  isn't	  it?"	  She	  gets	  a	  sense	  of	  people’s	  personalities	  in	  the	  cake	  transactions.	  She	  
does	  get	  some	  "bridezillas."	  She	  doesn't	  think	  it's	  as	  bad	  as	  it	  is	  on	  TV,	  but	  she	  thinks	  a	  lot	  of	  it	  is	  
amped	  up	  for	  TV.	  But	  you	  can	  see	  the	  control	  sometimes,	  and	  you	  think,	  wow.	  The	  bride	  who	  
wanted	  the	  five-­‐tier	  cake	  with	  all	  the	  bling.	  The	  top	  tier	  is	  kept	  for	  a	  year	  for	  the	  couple	  only,	  for	  
them	  to	  share	  a	  year	  later.	  That	  bride	  didn't	  like	  cake,	  the	  groom	  loved	  cake.	  He	  was	  very	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
16	  of	  17	  
passionate	  about	  cake.	  The	  bride	  said,	  "I	  don't	  like	  cake,	  I	  want	  it	  to	  be	  a	  rice	  krispie."	  So	  their	  
top	  tier	  was	  a	  rice	  krispie	  treat,	  covered	  in	  chocolate	  and	  fondant.	  You	  see	  things	  like	  that,	  and	  
you	  think,	  wow.	  He	  was	  a	  "Yes,	  dear"	  guy.	  There	  are	  "yes	  dear"	  guys	  and	  those	  who	  are	  very	  
opinionated	  and	  vocal.	  Debbie	  thinks	  if	  a	  couple	  has	  gotten	  that	  far,	  they've	  already	  established	  
their	  roles,	  and	  they’re	  okay	  with	  it,	  she	  guesses.	  	  
	  
She	  goes	  over	  the	  cakes	  she	  will	  send	  to	  LMG.	  Debbie	  loves	  the	  bling	  cakes.	  The	  scroll	  work	  and	  
flowers	  are	  pretty.	  She	  shows	  a	  photo	  of	  her	  son's	  wedding	  cake.	  She	  disassembled	  it	  and	  took	  
it	  to	  Florida	  in	  coolers	  with	  dry	  ice.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
1:12:02	  
Quality	  of	  work	  
Does	  Debbie	  think	  she	  does	  exceptional	  work?	  She	  knows	  she	  is	  very	  neat.	  She	  does	  clean,	  neat	  
work.	  She	  can	  look	  at	  things	  and	  say,	  "That	  is	  good."	  She	  has	  only	  disliked	  a	  couple	  of	  her	  
things,	  wished	  she	  had	  done	  them	  differently.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  limits	  herself	  to	  one	  wedding	  per	  weekend,	  solely	  because	  of	  her	  vehicle	  situation.	  She	  
is	  the	  only	  one	  who	  drives	  them	  to	  the	  locations,	  so	  logistically,	  she	  can't	  do	  two	  on	  the	  same	  
day,	  because	  they	  are	  usually	  at	  the	  same	  time.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  is	  showing	  LMG	  photos	  of	  cakes,	  talking	  about	  them.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
1:13:16	  
Wedding	  cake	  toppers	  
People	  still	  do	  toppers.	  Monograms	  are	  very	  popular.	  Some	  still	  do	  the	  old	  bride	  and	  groom	  
figures.	  There	  are	  a	  lot	  of	  flowers,	  some	  people	  do	  nothing	  on	  top	  of	  the	  cake.	  Initials	  are	  very	  
big,	  using	  the	  married	  name.	  The	  rosette	  is	  very	  popular—it's	  what	  was	  on	  the	  apricot	  colored	  
cake	  that	  LMG	  saw	  going	  out	  when	  she	  first	  came	  to	  Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake.	  This	  type	  of	  rosette	  
icing	  design	  is	  used	  on	  cakes	  and	  cupcakes,	  it	  has	  replaced	  the	  "Dairy	  Queen	  swirl."	  It’s	  what	  
she	  used	  on	  the	  rosary	  cake	  cupcakes.	  She	  shows	  images	  of	  the	  cakes	  about	  which	  she	  told	  
stories—the	  Thanksgiving	  time	  wedding	  cake	  for	  the	  military	  groom,	  the	  five-­‐tiered	  bling	  cake.	  
For	  that	  one,	  she	  got	  diamonds	  at	  Hobby	  Lobby.	  They	  were	  non-­‐edible,	  so	  they	  went	  on	  the	  
layers	  that	  were	  not	  cake.	  Rice	  krispie	  is	  used	  a	  lot	  on	  groom's	  cakes,	  for	  the	  head	  of	  an	  animal,	  
etc.	  She	  shows	  examples.	  
	  
She	  shows	  a	  photo	  of	  a	  shotgun	  cake.	  The	  barrel	  was	  a	  PVC	  pipe	  that	  she	  wrapped	  in	  black	  
fondant;	  the	  rest	  of	  the	  cake	  is	  edible.	  She	  is	  talking	  about	  another	  cake	  in	  which	  a	  man	  is	  
sitting	  and	  fishing.	  Another	  with	  a	  rice	  krispie	  treat	  deer	  shed.	  She	  makes	  her	  own	  rice	  krispie	  
treat	  if	  it’s	  for	  a	  large	  item.	  For	  the	  smaller	  design	  components,	  she	  buys	  the	  little	  squares.	  She	  
makes	  a	  batch	  as	  if	  she	  were	  going	  to	  eat	  it,	  but	  she	  cuts	  back	  on	  the	  butter,	  so	  it's	  soft	  enough	  
to	  mold	  into	  shapes.	  Another	  cake	  has	  real	  feathers	  dipped	  in	  chocolate,	  so	  that	  she	  could	  stick	  
the	  feather	  in	  the	  cake.	  Debbie	  has	  a	  lot	  of	  fun	  with	  these	  cakes.	  She	  shows	  the	  photo	  of	  the	  
Debbie	  Daigle-­‐Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  Audio	  Log	  	  Baton	  Rouge	  Folklife	  Survey	  	  Laura	  Marcus	  Green	  
 
17	  of	  17	  
alligator	  with	  the	  hand	  coming	  out	  of	  the	  water	  to	  choke	  it.	  There	  is	  a	  cake	  for	  someone	  who	  
owns	  a	  cake	  company,	  and	  a	  domino	  cake	  for	  a	  groom	  who	  loved	  to	  play	  dominos.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
1:17:41	  
Edible	  image	  icing	  
Edible	  image	  is	  an	  icing	  sheet	  that	  you	  put	  in	  a	  printer	  with	  special	  ink.	  And	  it	  spits	  out	  an	  
authentic	  image.	  That's	  how	  she	  got	  the	  Squatter's	  Beer	  label.	  It's	  done	  with	  a	  special	  printer	  
and	  special	  sheet,	  and	  you	  put	  it	  through.	  She	  is	  talking	  about	  a	  giant	  Reese’s	  cake,	  for	  a	  groom	  
who	  loved	  Reese’s,	  for	  which	  she	  made	  a	  chocolate	  cake	  with	  a	  Reese’s	  filling,	  and	  a	  chocolate	  
shell	  around	  it.	  	  
	  
She	  shows	  a	  jambalaya	  pot	  groom’s	  cake.	  There	  is	  one	  for	  a	  groom	  who	  loves	  pop	  tarts,	  one	  for	  
a	  man	  who	  loves	  doughnuts.	  Another	  is	  a	  bunch	  of	  cheesecakes	  for	  a	  groom	  who	  loved	  
cheesecake,	  so	  that's	  what	  he	  had.	  These	  images	  are	  not	  all	  from	  just	  one	  year;	  they	  predate	  
the	  opening	  of	  Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake.	  	  
	  
Debbie	  Daigle	  
1:18:51	  
Working	  hours	  
Another	  Piece	  of	  Cake	  has	  been	  open	  for	  365	  days,	  and	  she	  was	  open	  for	  business	  on	  364	  of	  
those	  days.	  She	  plans	  on	  that	  to	  change.	  She	  works	  a	  14-­‐hour	  day,	  minimum,	  arriving	  at	  5:00	  
am	  and	  leaving	  at	  7:00	  pm.	  When	  you	  tie	  in	  holidays,	  sometimes	  it's	  17	  or	  24	  hours,	  365	  days	  a	  
year.	  How	  will	  she	  change	  that?	  She	  needs	  to	  put	  out	  a	  good	  product,	  to	  make	  more	  money,	  to	  
hire	  more	  staff.	  Until	  you	  do	  that,	  you're	  responsible,	  you	  have	  to	  be	  committed	  it.	  She	  has	  to	  
take	  her	  rent	  check	  next	  door	  today	  when	  she	  leaves.	  The	  electric	  bill's	  going	  to	  come	  in.	  
"You've	  got	  to	  be	  committed.	  Sometimes	  I	  think	  I	  need	  to	  be	  committed!"	  
	  
END	  OF	  INTERVIEW	  
	  
	  
END	  OF	  RECORDING