July 11, 2013 
Home of Peter and SharenGendebien, Lisbon, NY 
Project: Archie Green Fellowship: Dairy Farm Workers in Northern NY 
Interviewer: Hannah Harvester (HH) 
Interviewees: Peter Gendebien (PG) and SharenGendebien (SG) 
Transcribed by:  Madeleine Shea  
0:00:00 
HH: This is July 11, 2013. This is Hannah Harvester with TAUNY and I’m here with Peter and Sharon 
Gendebien in their home in Lisbon, NY. We’re going to be speaking about their work as dairy farmers. 
Would you both start by giving just a little introduction with your personal background? Where you’re 
from and maybe some of your education or jobs you’ve done? Just a little, brief personal history. 
SG: I was born in Boston, Massachusetts, moved to California when I was ten, attended all public school, 
went to college at Cal Berkeley, where I was a Spanish major and a French minor. Then I applied for the 
Peace Corps after hearing Sergeant Shriver speak at Berkeley twice. I decided that was for me, especially 
as I was a Spanish major. I was asked to go to Peru, South America, and it was in training that I met 
Peter. So we got married after our two years in the Peace Corps in Le Paz, Bolivia at our former Peace 
Corps director’s home. He had become country director in Bolivia. After about three years there, we had 
to return to the United States because there was a leftist coup and Peter stayed behind to make sure all 
his volunteers—by then he was a regional director of Peace Corps—and he had to make sure all his 
volunteers were safely out. He visited a good friend of mine who had a dairy farm in Pennsylvania, and 
then he decided to try his hand at dairy farming. So that’s that! 
0:02:12.6 
HH: And what year was it—youdidn’t go to Peru in the end, you went to Bolivia?  
SG: Oh, I went to Peru for two years and after the two years, went to Bolivia, where we were married. 
HH: And you met in training. ok. 
SG: We met in training, but we didn’t get married until the end of our service. 
HH: And what year was it that you entered the Peace Corps? 
SG: Sixty five. 1965. So close to 1967. And then we went to Bolivia almost immediately, right honey? 
PG: Mmhmm. 
SG: Two of our children were born in Bolivia, and our son, who is now in partnership with us, was born 
in Ogdensburg.  
0:02:58.6 
HH: Peter? 
PG: Well, I grew up in Southeastern Pennsylvania. I went to Penn State and graduated a civil engineer, 
and joined the Peace Corps. Served two years in Peru in engineering, building roads and surveying roads 
and water systems and rural schools—building rural schools. Then I switched to staff in Bolivia, and we 
were married in Bolivia. We remained there for three years. I grew up as a child, my neighbors were all 
dairy farmers, and most of our programs in Bolivia were agriculture related. So I sort of got really 
interested in agriculture, and being away from my profession for seven years was kind of—I would have 
had to go to school. So, the visit to the farm that Sharen and I made to Pennsylvania was inspirational 
and we decided to try our hand at dairy farming. So we looked all over Pennsylvania but couldn’t—the 
prices there were already high, and this area here in Northern New York, farms were quite affordable at 
the time, in the early seventies. So that’s how we ended up here. 
0:04:28 
HH: And, what was it about the visit to the dairy farm, or the thinking you’d been doing about farming 
that kind of made you make that decision? 
PG: Well, I’m a hands-on person basically, I couldn’t see myself in an office. And like I say, very much 
interested in agriculture, and a hands-on personality. So I think those two things added together to 
become a dairy farmer. 
HH: How did you feel about that work, Sharen? 
SP: Well, I wasn’t thrilled, I have to admit [laughs]. I really wasn’t thrilled. I had to learn how to milk 
cows, and I had a big garden. I did like the area, though. I really liked the area. Loved the changes in the 
seasons. Mainly growing up in California, loved that. Loved being close to Canada.There’s an awful lot of 
cultural events. 
PG: She hates the weather. 
SP: Yeah, but really like the cultural opportunities for myself and for the children, because I was 
concerned about a small rural school. Lisbon Central School is quite small, it’s K through twelve. Having 
gone to a really top notch university, I was concerned, but growing up on the farm turned out to be 
wonderful for our children. Two went to Penn State, one went to Colgate, so everyone has a college 
degree and our oldest has a doctorate in psychology and runs the mental health clinic at University of 
Nevada at Las Vegas.  
HH: Oh, wow 
SP: So apparently it wasn’t a detriment to attend a small school and we were able to kind of fill in some 
of the gaps with our own background. Now our son is president of the school board—he’s following in  
his father’s footsteps. Peter was president for twenty.... 
PG: Well, I was on the board for twenty five years, president for six. 
SP: And now our son has that same interest in education of his children. So we’re kind of pleased about 
that! 
0:07:00.8 
HH: And you were, you worked as a teacher in the area? 
SG: Yeah, yes, I taught Spanish and French at Wadhams Hall Seminary for fifteen years, and I taught in 
public school—I taught Spanish and French for just one year and then switched to our little school and 
taught Spanish for another seventeen years. 
HH: Ok. So when you came up here, how did you—was it a working farm that you acquired? 
PG: No, this farm had been, had been abandoned for a few years.  
HH: So how did you know what to do? How did you get started? 
PG: Oh.... 
SG: You visited the Fishers, remember? 
PG: I visited farms and Bob Thompson helped me a great deal, he was pretty much my mentor. 
HH: Ok, so he was retired.... 
PG: No no, he was still farming, in fact, we shared some equipment and we shared labor. In fact, I—it 
was his equipment and my labor on occasion. He helped me a great deal, but most of it we just learned 
by doing, really. But I do have a mechanical aptitude, and I do love animals, so those two things helped 
me a great deal. It was pretty tough, it was touch and go for a while. We started the first winter—we 
started with eighteen cows, went down to milking just nine at one time. So that was a pretty rough first 
year. 
0:08:40 
HH: And what was the year that you started here? 
PG: 1971. August 71.  
HH: Ok, so Bob Thompson was the farm that Blake now has, is that right? 
PG: Yes. 
HH: Ok, and you said he was your mentor? 
PG: Pretty much, they had a daughter in the Peace Corps.... 
SG: We had been in the Peace Corps 
PG: We had been in the Peace Corps, we just hit it off, the two families. They still had some small 
children at home who helped me with haying and so on and then I helped Bob. He didn’t have a hired 
man at the time, so when all of his kids went to school he was pretty short of help. So I helped with corn 
harvesting in the fall, so that worked out. 
0:09:32 
HH: And, can you just briefly describe what the system or, the system you have today, because you’re in 
partnership with your son but—this is still your farm and that’s his farm? 
PG: Yes. The LLC—Limited Liability Company that we have formed, is for cattle and machinery, but we 
each own and operate—operating expenses—we each own separately the real estate. The LLC rents the 
farms from us. This is paperwork, that’s how it works. 
HH: But the cattle are owned in common by the LLC. 
PG: Right, by the LLC. 
0:10:23 
HH: So can you talk a little bit about when you first started here, how you kind of grew maybe, over the 
years? You said you started with eighteen cows. What is the number today? 
PG: Well, I bought in the fall we moved here, I went to Farm Production Credit and they lent me money 
for eighteen cows, a tractor, and a manure spreader. And he said, come back in the spring, and if you’re 
still here, if you survive the winter, we’ll lend you some more money for more equipment for your 
summer’s cropping needs. So we slowly acquired; first  we got an old 1945 tractor, small two bottom 
plow, very small set of discs and a little corn planter.... 
SG: We still have that tractor. 
PG: I still have that tractor.... 
SG: It still runs. 
PG: And we bought haying equipment from a neighbor, very old stuff. And I do have mechanical 
aptitude so I was able to keep things going until we were able to afford more and more progressively 
modern equipment. So today we have a fairly modern line of equipment. I mean, it’s still ten—let’s see, 
our newest tractor is probably ten years old, which is fairly new for a farm tractor. So we don’t really buy 
new things, we buy used equipment but there’s a lot of good used equipment on the market because 
not all farmers have mechanical aptitude, so they tend not to maintain equipment as well as it’s possible 
to be done. So if you pick up good equipment for a small amount of money it almost turns back to new. 
0:12:22 
HH: So you do all the repairs and all the maintenance on all the machinery? 
PG: Yes, I do all the mechanical work in shop. That’s where I spend my winters now. I don’t have much 
to do with the cattle anymore. Blake pretty much handles the cattle. 
0:12:38 
HH: And you’re sort of the machinery/maintenance.... 
PG: And repair man. And consultant! And I also drive the tractor and plant the corn, and do a lot of the 
field work. 
0:13:04 
HH: So, what were your jobs, Sharen? 
SG: Well, my jobs were, running the household, milking.... 
PG: Feeding calves 
SG: Feeding calves, and and the same time, I gradually got my Master’s Degree in Education. I did teach 
at the seminary without having to have a Master’s Degree in Education because that was college level. 
But in order to teach in public school I had to get a Master’s in Education, so just little by little I did that 
also.  
PG: Helped pick stones, on occasion.... 
SG: Yes, helped pick stones....but mostly calves and milking. And washing the machines on the big tank. 
0:13:55 
HH: And how did the, in those early years, how did you make those decisions about who was going to do 
what, did you want to be the calf feeder or....? 
SP: Well, I’m not mechanically oriented, so there was no way I could fix machinery, right. 
PG: I think we have a sort of traditional farm, too 
SP: The calves are cute, everybody likes the calves. 
PG: To this day women do a better job with calves. 
HH: That’s what people say. 
SP: Watching for signs of –we would say diarrhea for a human, and it’s called scouring for calves. And so 
you really wanna keep an eye out on that and address the problems quickly. We did very well with our 
calves, we lost very few calves. And we did a lot of reading and also went to some classes that were 
offered by co-operative extension. There’s lots of information if you want to avail yourself of it, you 
know? It helps a lot.  
0:15:10 
HH: So, 1971, what were sort of the major changes that you experienced or that you made on the farm, 
whether in terms of equipment—was it always this gradual kind of progression that you described, or 
were there big changes at any point along the way? 
PG: Well, for us, before Blake came home, it was pretty gradual. 
SG: And acquisitions....not just machinery 
PG: Land acquisition, tile drainage 
SG: Improvement 
PG: In machinery, the biggest jump was from a sickle bar to a disc bar. That was huge. 
HH: Is that for mowing, or corn? 
PG: Haying. For mowing hay. 
SG: A sickle bar’s very primitive, just very simple 
PG: That was really an innovation that has changed, it’s changed agriculture in my opinion. 
0:16:12 
HH: So, from a sickle bar to, what was it? 
PG: Disc bar, disc mower. But for us, we were limited—we used what we had here to the capacity, we 
would’ve had to build. But by that point in time, I was old fashioned and determined to work our way 
out of debt, which we had done. But by that time, there was no ego left, no ego involved anymore in 
becoming larger because a lot of the larger expansions are, in my opinion, ego prompted because you 
can—well, anyway, I was beyond that point. So we had worked our way out of debt, we were close to 
retirement and really didn’t plan for a child coming home, because if you do plan for a child coming 
home it doesn’t happen and then you’re stuck with a lot of debt at an older age. So, that was a good 
thing in a way. But now we’re back in debt [laughs].  
0:17:23 
HH: So when was it that Blake decided to come home? 
PG: He was finished with college, and worked for Ag-Co, which is an agricultural equipment company. I 
think about five years after graduating, he decided to come home.  
HH: And how did you—it sounds like maybe you were a little surprised? How did you feel about that? 
PG: Well, he had mused about it and, you know, was undecided. And then a neighboring farm came up 
for sale, and I called him and said, the Thompsons’ farm is up for sale, now would be a good time if you 
wanted. If you’re serious about coming home. And he jumped at it. He was real thrilled.  
SG: He had been abroad, which was one of his goals after college, got to work in Germany for a while, 
and then he fell in love, got married, and then I think something clicked about raising a family. Do you 
want to be in an office, traveling—he did a lot of travelling—and once he got married, and came home 
to the farm he tried to do two things at once for a while and then he just decided to drop the traveling. 
And try to create the kind of childhood for his children that he had. Some farm children will do 
everything they can to get away from the farm, but he was—we never used him to the point where he 
would become burned out. 
PG: We never overtaxed them, they were allowed to do sports.... 
SG: They participated in band, chorus, model UN, you name it, any extracurricular activity that they 
were interested in we allowed them. We never tried to make them feel guilty, so they did have chores at 
home but they were not expected to work like adults. So he did not want to get away like so many 
people....I’ve run into quite a few people who have told me, “I just could not wait to get away from the 
farm.” 
0:19:49 
HH: What were your children—you had three children—what were their chores when they were 
growing up? 
PG: Oh, well, they started feeding the calves when they were old enough and then they’d feed hay after, 
in the evening before bedtime. And weekend milking because I didn’t have help on the weekend. And 
raking hay, picking stones, unloading hay.... 
SG: Unloading hay, yeah... 
PG: Unloading a lot of hay! 
SG: You see, this was before round bales this was when we only had square bales, and that takes a lot of 
time. 
PG: Like most of the hay raking, the girls unloaded hay.... 
SG: …loaded the hay onto the elevator and stacking hay in the barn. Now, teenagers nowadays would 
not have that chore, because most farmers have switched to round bales or other ways of harvesting 
the hay. 
HH: Well, that was one thing Blake said, when I was talking with him, that was interesting. That part of 
the reason that they have the goats and the other animals is to have chores for his sons to do, because 
some of the chores he had don’t exist. 
PG: Don’t exist, exactly. 
SG: They’ll still be stone picking when they get a little bigger! 
PG: Well, we don’t do much square baling anymore, it’s mostly chopped hay and put into silos or piles, 
or round bales. We still do some, though. 
0:21:30 
HH: What do you use the square bales for? 
PG: Well, they’re put in this barn overhead, and they’re fed in the evening to the dry cows that are 
housed here inside. It’s still the most efficient way to feed cattle that are— 
SG: Indoors. 
PG: Indoors.  
SG: A big round bale would never fit.  
PG: We tried rolling them out one year, it was awful! One side froze....one side would freeze. 
0:21:59 
HH: Remind me how many cows you have? 
PG: I think they’re milking about 130 over there, we probably have just as many young stock, calves and 
heifers. I don’t know the exact numbers. 
0:22:19 
HH: Did any of your methods, or approaches to farming, change significantly when Blake came back? Or 
did he kind of just join in? 
PG: No, everything—a lot of things changed. We started growing more corn, as a cash crop, and we 
started using piles instead of vertical siderows [phone rings]....excuse me.  
SG: We have cell phones now! I’ve tried to troubleshoot, we didn’t have that....[laughs], there were no 
cell phones. We had a little intercom for a few years that went from the barn to our bedroom because in 
the wintertime, sometimes cows calve at night. Well, they frequently calve at night, just like ladies give 
birth at night, and we could hear a cow in distress. 
HH: So you had like a little baby monitor? 
SG: Yeah, that idea, right, because Peter was very conscientious about checking cows that were due or 
close to their due time. He would check before he went to bed and plus we had that. Calf mortality, that 
was something that we really felt we had to do well with. 
PG: I have a repair I have to do, so.... 
SG: What happened? 
PG: Oh, Eric broke it.... 
SG: Eric broke it? Who was it, Matt? 
PG: No, it was Blake, but Jimmy was raking. That’s the way it goes. 
0:24:05 
HH: Well, if you need to go fix the hay rake, I understand. But, would you say a little bit more—you were 
saying that you wanted to do really well with calf mortality. That’s because you started with so few 
animals? 
SG: So few animals, right. And we did, we were very successful with calf mortality. I was telling Hannah 
about that monitor that we had up to our bedroom for a while, because we really just wanted to be 
right on top of every cow that was giving birth! 
0:24:39 
HH: So when you started, you had all the animals in this barn here? 
PG: Right.  
HH: And then.... 
PG: Well, we milk....shortly after Blake bought that farm over there we shifted to milking over there 
because there’s much more room to milk. And then we just used this for calves and dry cows. And then 
we had a third barn, the Noble barn, pull around the corner where we had our heifers. But then just two 
years ago, December 2011, we built a new barn for heifers. 
SG: The half barn that you see 
PG: Yep, so the old one—the Noble Barn—was really labor intensive, it was inefficient, so now we’re just 
two locations instead of three. It works out.  
HH: Before Blake came back, were you just using this barn still? How many animals did you have then?  
PG: The most I know of was fifty six. 
SG: But you did have the heifers at the Noble Barn, before. 
PG: Yeah, but we only milked fifty six, had another fifty or so young cow.  
HH: And so at that time, you had the fifty or so young stock, were in that other barn. 
PG: Yeah, right. 
0:25:55 
HH: Did you see, well, it sounds like you were saying things progressed gradually, but over your time in 
farming from when you started to today, have you seen the types of knowledge or skills that you need 
to use on a day to day basis, have those things changed significantly over time? 
PG: Hmm. 
SG: Peter always used a lot more math than most farmers around here, because of his engineering 
background; he could calculate the amount of feed in a silo and how many days you could feed that 
amount. So I think for some farmers, yes, but he already had those skills. 
PG: Well, I don’t know about that, but the cattle nutrition is changing... 
SG: Changing all the time, that’s true. 
PG: Things are changing all the time. 
0:27:02 
HH: So you still do a lot of reading? 
PG: Yeah, you know, Blake—I’m kind of phasing out, but Blake is up on the newest techniques. You 
know, like recommended population of corn has gone from like 18-20 thousand seeds per acre up to 30-
32, and fertilizer rates and varieties, other varieties of corn are changing....and it’s possible to grow 
soybeans here now, so they have varieties that’ll grow here. And haylage methods are changing, 
moisture content recommendation, lots of things are changing.  
SG: But Peter was asked to go to—let’s see, what country did you go to? 
PG: Honduras? 
SG: Honduras, as part of VOCA, what does that stand for... 
PG: Volunteers for Overseas Co-operative Assistance 
SG: Yes, and he developed a questionnaire in Spanish—I helped him develop the questionnaire—and 
visited co-ops and addressed cattle health, and crops, and a whole, whole array of issues that farmers 
face. And he interviewed—forty? 
PG: It was thirty-five, forty 
SG: Thirty five, forty, farmers, and then reported back. So, those types of things that he addressed in his 
questionnaire to those farmers, those things really haven’t changed. Those are the things that farmers 
need to think about. 
PG: There really are basics, and those things don’t change.... 
SG: Yeah, things like the population—the number of seeds and so forth.... 
PG: You still have to treat animals with kindness.... 
SG: You can keep up with those kind of recommendations by reading, right, but really those basic things 
that you talked about with those farmers.... 
PG: The big changes are milking parlors. 
SG: That’s a technological change 
PG: But we have and still milk in a conventional style barn, and you just can’t milk huge numbers that 
way because your knees would give out. So we’re pretty much at maximum number of cows, I think it’s 
about a hundred or a little bit over. It’s very difficult to milk that many cows when you’re up and down 
under the cows twice a day. And the bigger farms are all milking three times a day but that’s just 
impossible for us. But because the bigger farms have parlors, and they even have rotating parlors. Seen 
one of those? 
HH: Yeah, I have. 
PG: So, you know what I’m talking about. 
HH: Yeah, yeah.  
PG: So we’re gaining.... 
0:30:00 
SG: Is that Pierce farm that we took Jeanne to?  
PG: Well, there’s Pierce and there’s.... 
SG: We went to visit one.... 
PG: I guess I should make that repair, can you handle it? She knows everything I know, so it’s all right? 
HH: It’s all right, you have to do what you have to do. 
PG: Ok. 
SG: That’s one thing about farming that—it’s around the clock! 
PG: If you have any specific questions, you can call me?  
HH: Ok yeah, sure, thank you! 
0:30:41 
SG: It’s every day, right. So one nice thing about Blake coming home is that we have both of us, both can 
have a little bit of time off a few days at a time. We had very little time off for many years, and I 
remember the few times that we did so clearly, because it was a big deal! I don’t know if you are familiar 
with Penski, Inc? 
HH: Yeah— 
SG: The temp service? Well, Bob Penski was one of my husband’s Peace Corps volunteers, in Bolivia, and 
he came to visit us on the farm and for a short time thought he might also want to become a dairy 
farmer. Almost purchased a farm in Lisbon, but he decided against it. On the other hand, he would milk 
the cows for us once every few months for a couple of milkings, so we could get away. 
PG: He took the car, he took the ski in it? Or he took my truck? 
SG: Yeah, I think it must be. They’re always taking his truck, poor guy. So the Penskis have remained 
close friends despite the times they milked our cows for us, once in a while! 
HH: I think I know them—Bob and Judy, and she does photography, takes a lot of photos of barns I’ve 
noticed! 
SG: Yeah, she does! And Amish. Well, I won’t say Amish. She has taken pictures of Amish buggies, 
because we—one of the changes that occurred shortly before Blake came home, was the availability of 
Amish labor. And we had a family that lived with us for seven years, and helped with chores, and was 
just a wonderful employee. So, labor is a big issue with dairy farms. So when the Amish came, they 
actually came to the county about the same time we did, but we weren’t aware of them until about 
twenty years in. There was a gentleman that came to clip our cows, but what that means is, in the early 
fall before the cows are stabled, we had to shave hair up—up the top part of the legs and all over the 
udder. That was a regulation. 
HH: Oh, really? 
0:33:22 
SG: Mm-hmm. Yup. And this Amish fellow had been clipping our cows, and then, I’m not sure I have this 
exactly right, it was either him or a brother, and the parents came. The parents came and asked if we 
would hire the son who was gonna get married. This was in February, and we didn’t have time to build 
an outhouse, so we turned our garage into an apartment and put a woodstove in. And they used our 
bathroom for seven years. Indoor plumbing. This family loved working for us! We’re still really good 
friends with them too. They saved, and they bought their own farm, just outside of Heuvelton. It might 
still be considered Heuvelton, it might be DePeyster. And then another family took their place, lived with 
us for a while and then lived with Blake. And then they left because their little girl was ready for school, 
and they don’t really believe in home schooling. They like to have their children be in walking distance. 
So that’s another family, just those two families worked for us and now we don’t have Amish working 
for us. We do have three—did Blake tell you about our Mexican employees? So you already know that, 
right? 
0:34:56 
HH: Yeah, um, Carlos, Chris and Antonio. 
SG: Yes, you even knew their names! 
HH: Well, I talked with them too. 
SG: Oh, well, two of them are close to going home. 
HH: Oh, really? 
SG: Yup, and Chris is watching TV and trying to figure out, will there be a guest worker or some kind of 
official....but it’s not looking good![this brief discussion is in reference to the “Border Security, Economic 
Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act” passed by the US Senate in late June 2013, which 
would have created a guest worker plan for dairy farmers, but which at the time of the interview the US 
House was not taking up. They were instead drafting their own legislation that would not include a guest 
worker program.] 
HH: Yeah, it was looking good for a while and now it sounds like, not. 
SG: It sounds like it’s not going to happen! 
HH: They’re going to put it off and not do it. 
SG: Which is really awful. Because I’m sure, as you’ve talked to different farmers, the labor is a huge 
issue. 
HH: Mmhm. Yeah. 
SG: It really is. Americans like cheap food....I don’t need people to milk cows. Soybean milk—well, they 
advertise it heavily—what is it, that almond...something. Silk. You know, it’s heavily advertised, but, I’ve 
read that it’s not good for children in particular. And kids need milk, they need their milk. We have to 
have a good, safe supply of dairy products. We try not to get depressed when we hear all these issues 
discussed,  you know, if you listen too much it’s just really discouraging. We have weathered downturns 
and of course if you read the history of dairy farming in the county, the number of farms has declined 
dramatically. Somehow we have been able to weather all those storms, and it’s really because—Peter 
wouldn’t tell you this himself—but he is so efficient. And careful not to overextend himself by buying 
the fancy combine or the fancy this-or-that. He has been very, very prudent, and we have survived. We 
think we can still survive, but it is a balancing act; it truly is. Some people say, well, in fact it was Bob 
Thompson’s oldest son—he was very pessimistic about the future of dairy farming in Northern New 
York. I’m glad that he was kind of wrong, I mean, yes the numbers of farms have decreased, but dairy 
farming is still viable in the North Country. He worked for the World Bank, he had a high position in the 
World Bank, and knows a lot about what’s going on around the globe. So he would be an interesting 
person too! And I’m sure that Bob would give you contact information about him. He has the macro; we 
have the micro perspective, and Bob Thompson, Jr.  has the macro perspective. He talks about feeding 
the six billion; he’s very interesting. So I hope that you’ll get to get a little bit of perspective in this since 
the Thompson farm is so closely linked with Twin Mill Farms. 
0:38:37 
HH: Yes. Well, when did the windmills—so, it’s Twin Mill Farms.... 
SG: The first windmill—well, I can’t tell you exactly how many years in, it was a very very dry summer 
and Peter decided that in addition to the pond, he should...no, how did that go....Oh, we had the first 
little windmill just to pump air into our pond because it’s not spring fed; then we had this terribly dry 
summer and he decided to dig a well in case our well wouldn’t be able to accommodate all our animals. 
And so he and his cousin...maybe you’ve met Rodney, I don’t know...he lives in the brown house at 
Blake’s and he’s a close relative to Peter. 
HH: Oh, I did meet him. 
SG: You met! And they went to Ohio and purchased a kit—a windmill kit to be able to pump water into 
the pond, and also, if need be, into stock tanks for animals should our well go dry. So, that trip to Ohio 
was to purchase this huge—very tall—kit. And at the time, the first Amish gentleman was with us, and 
he and Peter stood on the top little platform of that windmill day after day after day. I would come 
home from teaching and there they would be, trying to form the circle. And because Peter’s an 
engineer, he wasn’t going to give up! Well, it turned out, there was a piece missing. So the gentleman 
who manufactures these windmills—it’s located in Texas—have you ever seen the curious George 
books, with the tall man with the yellow hat? Ok, one day, the big tall man from Texas [laughs] pulls into 
our driveway, didn’t have a yellow hat but it was a great big hat. He was a tall thin man, he went and 
climbed up the windmill and diagnosed....he brought spare pieces. He said, ‘it was my mistake.’ They 
had spent days! And so he completed the windmill and offered us a trip to Texas! He was so upset....but 
we couldn’t get away from the farm. Anyway, that was quite a saga and the Amish fellow who helped 
Peter throughout all that, he still reminisces about standing up on top of that little tiny—you’ll have to 
look. You can drive out that way and you’ll notice a little platform up near where the circle is, and that’s 
where they were for days. Just days. 
0:41:46 
HH: So you said one of the Amish families that lived here has moved away but the other—you are still in 
touch with them? 
SG: Oh no, we’re in touch with both. They’re both in the area. One moved up just outside Heuvelton and 
purchased a farm, and he sells his milk to our dairy co-op. That’s another whole interesting story, our co-
op is wonderful. 
0:42:09 
HH: And what is your co-op called? 
SG: It’s Agri-Mark. Our farmers thank you. It’s Agri-Mark. We make McCadam and Cabot cheese. Agri-
Mark......well, there was a cheese factory in Heuvelton that went out of business, and I can’t tell you the 
name of it. And the Amish had been marketing their milk to this little cheese factory that produced 
cheese curd. It went out of business and the elders got together and they decided that they would sell 
milk to our co-op and they have little, small milk houses that hold three to four little individual bulk 
tanks, which are owned by our co-op. And the electricity to cool the milk—this was a big issue, you can 
imagine—so maybe you’ve heard this story? 
HH: I have heard it, yeah....technically it’s not their electricity 
SG: They can rent....it’s not their electricity, they pay rent. And their milk quality is the same as our milk 
quality because it’s tested, there’s a sample every time the milk is picked up, they have the same 
bacteria requirements as everybody else. And it has been a real lifesaver for a lot of Amish families. So 
our farmer employee who lived with us is now marketing his milk to the same co-op. And the other 
Amish family, they are in Heuvelton, they are looking. They may have purchased a farm; they were 
renting a farm and he is not a dairy farmer. He just does not milk cows, they raise turkeys, he makes 
stove pipes out of metal, he can bend metal, but he’s not a dairy farmer. They’re not all dairy farmers. 
Well, you know that there’s lots of wooden playsets and storage sheds, and you know, they have a 
variety of ways to make a living. There are some that are basket weavers, a lot of the women do the 
hand stitching on quilts and they get quilt tops from Lancaster, Pennsylvania and do the handwork and 
then mail them back. That’s a way to make money for the women. And there are saw mills and so forth. 
So we really have enjoyed our friendships with the Amish very much. 
0:44:47 
HH: Do you ever hire Amish workers now for building or anything like that? 
SG: Oh, occasionally, we needed a new door for one of the barns and the second Amish man, he’s a very 
good carpenter. He came over and did that. They like doing things like that, it really helps get some 
cash—cash flow for them. I notice on other farms some of the Amish do hoof trimming. That’s 
something that they can do, and let’s see, milking. Their main limitation is they cannot operate 
machinery. 
HH: So, it’s a little limiting. 
SG: It’s very limiting, yeah. 
HH: But those were the main hired hands on this farm for many years, then? 
SG: Yes, the one Amish man when we had fewer cows. When I helped milk it was me—Peter and I. And 
then after a few years we had a high school boy that would help with milking, so sometimes he and I 
would milk if Peter was busy with something else. And then, you know, the years go by, and I couldn’t 
milk anymore; it’s very hard on your knees if you don’t have a parlor. So we had a variety of high school 
kids over the years, wonderful high school kids. We were always very lucky, my husband really gets 
along well with teenagers. English adults are the most difficult to have as workers. Unfortunately, a lot 
of them have problems with smoking, or alcohol, or drugs, or other health problems, and they just are 
not reliable. Because milking cows is a skill that doesn’t require a lot of education, right, and so the 
people—the English people—that do it, are generally very short term. Because they don’t really want to 
be here, right? Whereas seasonally a college student or a good high school student, they enjoy the 
physical labor and on our farm, there’s a lot of variety. The big farms will have somebody standing in a 
milking parlor for twelve, thirteen, fourteen hours, and it’s very monotonous. Milking here takes a 
couple of hours and then there’s other things to do. There’s pushing feed, there’s picking up animals, 
dropping off animals, bringing round bales over. So everybody gets to drive a tractor, which young 
people—and not just young people but adults also—they really enjoy....I think it must be something in 
the blood! You know, they’re little boys forever, they just love to drive tractors! And being outdoors, 
they really like that too, unless it’s twenty below. So for a small farm like us, winter was a big challenge 
because we couldn’t afford to have a tractor with a cab. And my poor husband spread manure; twenty 
or thirty below weather, just in coveralls.  
0:49:06 
HH: He was spreading manure every day? 
SG: Almost every day....almost every day. In terrible deep snow, you know, really difficult conditions 
physically. He never got frostbite, fortunately, but sometimes I couldn’t even see him in the snow. So it 
was very difficult, very challenging. He didn’t have a tractor with a cab until our son came home. So that 
was many years of just a basic tractor. 
0:49:42 
HH: What year was it that Blake came home? 
SG: Did Blake tell you? 
HH: He did, I just don’t have it in my head. 
SG: So, it’s hard for me to figure out....he was born in 1976, he had been away...he was born in 1976 
HH: Do you know how old he was when he.... 
SG: And he came home when he was about twenty five. 
HH: Ok. So it would be around 2000... 
SG: Yup, around then. So that’s a long time to be using very basic machinery. In fact, the Amish called 
Peter Old Order English. That’s really true, he’s Old Order English, and they just loved to see him with 
the old tractors, the little old red Allis Chalmers tractors. And we purchased a piece of machinery in 
Lancaster for our Amish employees, we purchased machinery that goes behind a horse drawn—it’s a 
horse drawn piece of machinery, and we did have two draft horses that Peter trained. Now we only 
have one, one passed away. In fact, if you look out this window—come here—it doesn’t look....do you 
see that white thing with the black rubber tires? And the pink hubs? Well, it’s normally a wooden color 
with white rims or dark rims. Peter painted the rims pink for my daughter’s wedding, and he had our 
draft horse pull us down to the pond. That is the way our Amish employee could have a horse in the 
front, sit up on that bench, and have this piece of equipment that we bought in Lancaster that carries 
one round bale. One round bale. Well, that was very handy because when you bale round bales, they’re 
scattered all around the field! And in order to feed them efficiently, you want to pick a spot where 
they’re all lined up. So they have to be moved somehow. So our first Amish employee loved to go out in 
that contraption with the one round bale thing, and move them and line them up along the 
highway...and have people take pictures of him! Now supposedly they don’t want anybody to take 
pictures of them, but I can tell you, he would come home and say, “I think I’m famous.” They do have a 
little bit of pride! So anyway, our farm has become—I don’t know how to put it exactly—we’re not so 
big that it’s just a business, it’s a place where people like working. We have young people, they always 
come up the driveway, “Do you have any work for me,” the Amish parents, they’ve contacted us, “Do 
you have any work for our kids,” and then when people come to visit for Fourth of July it’s three days of 
having fifty to a hundred people here. We have picnic, we have canoe races, Peter just made a zipline 
down our pond. Just before the wedding, we have a zipline—did you bring your bathing suit? 
HH: No [laughs]. I’ll have to come back! 
0:53:43 
SG: You’ll have to come back! We’ve really tried to make it a place, where you know, the farming way of 
life is not just drudgery and just producing milk. It’s just a lot more than that. It’s very special. We have 
relatives and friends who come from Pennsylvania, from Florida, from New York City, of course my own 
daughter comes from Las Vegas, and we just gather to enjoy the farm. So in the beginning, like I said, I 
was not crazy about the idea. But after years of putting in all the work, now we’re just—we’re really 
reaping the benefits of it. We have children that want to come home, grandchildren that want to be 
here, grandchildren the really want to be here—that cry when they have to go back to Las Vegas. They 
really just love it. We don’t lock our doors, they can go in and out whenever they want. It sounds almost 
unbelievable, but they just have a blast! And look what they have in Las Vegas! You would think, you 
know, with huge movie theaters, big bowling centers, video game places, you would think “oh, this is 
paradise for teenagers,” and they still would rather be –would rather come here.  
0:55:32 
HH: When did you first hire Mexican—or I don’t know, if you’ve always had Mexican workers? 
SG: No, we haven’t, it’s very very recent. There was—the Cruikshanks had Mexican employees, a lot of 
them, for quite a while, and Blake got a call from one of the Cruikshanks saying there’s one extra. We 
just don’t have work for him, would you take him? And Blake said, well, you know, he was very hesitant, 
but he did. He took him. And he worked with us two different times, went home and then came back, 
and went home. So there’s a terrible misconception on the part of a lot of Americans that Mexicans who 
come just want an excuse to get here and then go on welfare. That hasn’t happened to anybody that we 
know. They want to go home. And I think it’s because they’re rural people that want to do farmwork, 
and they save, you know, they’re thrifty, and then they want to go home. And that’s been our 
experience.  You know, two of your guys have made enough money to build a house to go home to and 
the older gentleman’s putting his daughter through nursing school. I don’t know if the guys showed you 
their properties when you interviewed them. 
HH: No, no. 
SG: Well, they have—they skype, you know, so they have contact with their relatives and they have 
pictures. Their parents send them pictures of their properties, and they can show us, you know. 
0:57:27 
HH: And you have a— 
SG: But I can’t tell you the year, I just can’t tell you the year....let’s see, this is 2013, I’ve been retired for 
seven years.....let’s see....2006?  Maybe, it might be around 2005 we started, not very many 
years....maybe 2005.  
HH: And you have a particularly, from my observation, it seems your family has a particularly good 
relationship with your Mexican workers because you speak Spanish! 
SG: Oh, yes!  
HH: And you have experience in Latin America, and it seems that because of that, they are able to do 
more variety of things, and they’re not milking all day every day. Like in some larger farms. 
SG: No, they’re not. Mmhm. Yeah, their quality of life....I mean, it’s terrible that we can’t let them go to 
Walmart, terrible....we do not know...people say, “you are hiring illegal aliens.” We aren’t in the sense 
that, when they come and apply for a job, they have all the papers they need. They have their social 
security number, we pay social security, according to a labor fellow that I know in Syracuse, he said that 
a big secret—in the sense that it’s not publicized— is that dairy farmers and other farmers are putting 
billions of dollars into the social security system that will never be collected.  
HH: That’s interesting to think about. 
SG: I said, oh, probably millions. He said, no, billions, Sharen. Billions of dollars are collected by dairy 
farmers and other farmers and paid into social security.  
0:59:36 
SG: But, if a border patrol agent sees one of them in Walmart, or at the Price Chopper, they just take 
them! And then, nine times out of ten, there’s a no match. And no match means, their name is not 
associated with that social security number. But the government keeps the money, they’re happy to 
keep the money! And we follow all the—we pay the workmen’s comp, and the other farmers do too, I’m 
sure. There might be a few people that are trying to do something wrong—that’s what I worry about. 
That’s what I worry about. That it’s not fair to these people. Not everybody is treated—I don’t know of 
any individual cases, but I just have a feeling, knowing human nature, that there’s gonna be people who 
don’t speak Spanish who don’t treat these people with respect. Because they have dark skin, and we are 
notoriously a racist society, even if we say we’re not, right? 
1:00:57 
HH: Have you noticed the border patrol is a particular issue around here because of the proximity to 
Canada? Have you noticed any changes, has it gotten better, or is it pretty much.... 
SG: Oh, it’s gotten much worse! I went to see Congressman Owens’ representative just a few weeks ago, 
and I said, is there any way you can get information–concrete information—on the increase in border 
patrol, because they’re everywhere! They’re at Lisbon Beach, they’re back and forth, there’s traffic 
stops, the Penskis told me about the increase in traffic stops because they have branch offices in 
Potsdam, Ogdensburg, Massena, they have many branch offices now. And one day Judy got stuck three 
times. So anyway, I went to the library, and I asked Congressman Owens’ representative for information, 
and she sent me a lot of paperwork, which is very dramatic on the increase in numbers of border patrol. 
I don’t know if you’d be interested in seeing that, but I have all the documentation. It’s just exponential, 
the increase.  
1:02:23 
HH: Well, it’s very disappointing for me to be hearing how it seems like there’s not gonna be action on, 
you know, immigration....it’s really sad. 
SG: And the traffic stops are intrusive, you know, I’m sure there are people who get stopped a lot, if they 
travel more. Like between Ogdensburg and Alex Bay, a lot of our company does it frequently, and about 
two years ago my niece and her fiancé, they had picked up one of our barn kitties, they were stopped at 
the traffic stop and the border patrol guy said, “what do you have in your backseat,” and they said, a 
barn kitten.  And the guy goes, “what?” and he looks in the back, and there’s a barn kitten. Did Ruth tell 
you how she was stopped?[Ruth is a mutual acquaintance of HH and SG, daughter of the farm’s previous 
owner.] 
HH: She did, coming here. Coming to the old farm, because it was an unusual car.... 
SG: Virginia plates, she had her Virginia plates, she had a niece, they were coming for the gingerbread 
contest. 
HH: Oh, yeah. 
SG: She was gonna measure the buildings so that her gingerbread replica would be to scale. 
HH: She’s such a perfectionist! 
SG: To be to scale, and he actually followed her up the driveway, which is very unusual. They don’t come 
up our driveway. One day Peter pulled one of them out of a snowbank, and the end. He had real mixed 
feelings about that! It’s like, why am I doing this, these people are such a pain! They’re such a pain! Our 
minister for the Little White Church, they were parking in his driving, in the church driveway, he finally 
got disgusted and he called immigration and said, I don’t want them parking in the church driveway. In 
the Rochester/Buffalo area, the farm laborers are allowed to go to church. Now why can’t that be in St. 
Lawrence County? It’s really very—it’s a tremendous hardship for these people who are not committing 
any crimes, they’re not smuggling cigarettes, I say send them all to the rez [Akwesasne Indian 
Reservation] because there are real problems on the rez! We have a neighbor who’s a farm neighbor, 
whose daughter went into the border patrol and she has to wear a bullet proof vest all the time. Her 
assignment is the rez. So there is crime there, you know, and they very much needed patrol around 
there. I’m not saying that the Indians themselves are to blame, it’s because the rez spans both sides of 
the border and so smuggling, I guess smuggling is easier because of the geography. Because of the 
geography. It’s probably just a handful of people that are smuggling and there’s some violence over 
drugs, you know. Anyway. 
1:05:52 
HH: So you said, so it sounds like Chris is wanting to stay but Carlos and Antonio are getting reading to 
leave? But they’re not planning to come back, they’re—they’ve saved their money and they’re going 
back? 
SG: Mmhm. 
HH: That’s great, because I know that Antonio has children and he’s been here for a long time, right? 
SG: Yes, on our farms—none of them have been on our farm for very long but Chris was in Chicago prior 
to coming here and Antonio was at the Fisher King Farm. So he’s been here a while—in the United 
States a while. And I remember....this is really, this is what breaks my heart as far as the inattention to a 
guest worker program....their trip to get to the United States is very difficult. And they’re not getting the 
nutrition that they need and when I first saw Antonio, he was grey. I mean, his—he had a pallor. He had 
a really rough trip. Now, I don’t know any detail, any specific details, but they’re in vehicles for many 
hours at a time. You know, they can’t stop much, so they’re not eating much, because....they would 
need to use the bathroom, right? It’s awful! Not to mention, crossing the actual border is arduous, and 
now we have the narcotraficantes, the cross border drug traffickers, and they’re robbing these people. 
It’s truly inhumane, there’s programs on public TV that I can’t even watch, they’ve found bodies floating 
in water, and...awful. Awful stuff.So. And the other thing that really gets me about it—I know that you 
probably....I shouldn’t get into politics too much, but I can’t help it—a lot of these people originally came 
because they were hired by Republicans. They’re the ones who own the factories that wanted the really 
cheap labor. They mostly came to work in meat packing, and construction; they were building all the 
homes in Las Vegas, right? And yet, they’re not gonna be part of the solution to the problem?  
1:08:36 
HH: That’s very disappointing right now. 
SG: It’s very disappointing! It’s very disappointing. Don’t know what’s gonna happen. Perhaps the 
election, the next election....I mean, the Republicans have dug themselves into such a hole with 
minorities, with women, with the gay community, I mean, who’s left to vote for them, I’m thinking? 
Right? Maybe then they’ll say, “well, maybe we should work on a little bit of, you know, some of the 
issues” instead of just saying “no, no, no.” It’s their favorite word. And it’s not all Republicans either, it’s 
mostly the—certain factions, certain very conservative factions. Let’s see, who’s back? [referring to a 
truck that’s just pulled in the driveway.] 
1:09:33 
HH: There’s a child in there, but I couldn’t see.... 
SG: There’s a child in there. Oh, Miles is there. Ok, that’s Blake with his oldest boy, and that’s a mowing 
machine. That’s mowing hay. And after it gets mown, then it has to get raked. And that causes the hay, 
when it’s raked it causes the hay that’s just all scattered, to be arranged in the pattern... 
HH: Oh, and that looks so beautiful. I love the way that looks. 
SG: Yeah, and then sometimes, sometimes there’s another step, where it gets flipped over. 
HH: So, it’s drying? 
SG: So it gets dried out not just on the top, but on the bottom too. And then, you have either a round 
baler or a chopper, or a square baler that takes those nice rows and does something with it.  
1:10:32 
HH: And all the equipment—you own all that equipment, the round baler, the square baler? 
SG: We do not own the chopper. We have, when Blake—can you look out this window....ok, do you see 
that white plastic with black stripes? That is chopped hay, with plastic over the top, and then rows of 
tires—recycled old tires—to keep that stuff from blowing away. That’s another way of storing the hay. 
So we have that kind of storage, then we have vertical storage in the concrete silo; that’s chopped but 
it—both of those—ferment, it smells nice. It’s a little extra treat for the cows, the cows like it. Yeah, and 
the round bales, and then the square bales. So you’re gonna practically be a farmer by the time you’re 
done talking! How many farmers are you interviewing? 
1:11:36 
HH: [laughs] Oh, all in all we’ve visiting about fifteen farms— 
SG: That’s quite a lot, that’s a lot! 
HH: And so we’ve done—and you know, on some of them we’ve interviewed more than one person or 
gone back for a second interview. Because it’s huge, it’s a huge topic, you know? 
SG: It’s a big topic, yup. It’s a big topic, I’ve certainly gained an appreciation for what farmers do. Well, 
I’m a retired teacher and sometimes I would hear teachers in the teachers room say, “Oh, oh my gosh, I 
have to do cafeteria duty and the kids were so loud and noisy. And wanted me to squirt ketchup on their 
french fries and open their peaches....” and I’m like, oh my god. You know. Are you kidding? You can’t 
say anything, but you know they just have—they have no clue what work really is. I mean, W-O-R-K. It is 
work! And I suppose there are a few farmers who are really, really big, who just sit in an office and stay 
and a computer, but.....the majority of them are—they’re out there, troubleshooting if not doing the 
actual milking themselves. Troubleshooting...and they have headaches beyond belief. Things don’t go 
smoothly on a daily basis, that’s just....So one good thing, one thing that my son has really learned, 
is.....and he has told Peter this, is that daily challenges—how you meet daily challenges, because your 
day is not going to go smoothly. And that is something that Peter has passed on to Blake. If you’re the 
type of person that flies off the handle because something didn’t go right or something broke, or an 
employee made a mistake, this is not the kind of life for you. It’s just not smooth sailing. It’s given it’s 
not smooth sailing. And so, you know like on a trip half the fun is getting there? They say, half the fun is 
getting there. Well, on a dairy farm, half of the day is getting there. Getting from morning til 
night.And.....dealing with obstacles.Dealing with obstacles. Those are going to happen every day.  
1:14:32 
HH: Because you’re dealing with animals, weather, equipment? 
SG: Animals, weather, equipment, people...yeah. Yup, yup. It’s really fascinating. 
1:14:50 
HH: It’s funny that you said, that you now have an appreciation for what farmers do, because.... 
SG: I was not from a farm, no, I was not. 
HH: But you did have your fair share of work. 
SG: Oh, yes.  
HH: Farmwork. 
SG: Farmwork. I had plenty of farmwork. Washing them, milking the cows, feeding the calves, washing 
the equipment....that’s physical, you know. And you get tired; well, you certainly don’t have any trouble 
sleeping. One time there was a program at Canton College, it was before it was Canton—it was ATC, and 
it was a program to train people to be able to work on farms. And Peter was an adjunct hired by Canton 
College. And he had a series of trainees. They worked here so many weeks, and their salary was 
subsidized. And what an odd combination of people! They were here one at a time. One really hard 
thing for them was to get here in the morning, because they had been unemployed for a time, they 
were most of them in their twenties, their early twenties; they had been unemployed for a time, and 
they weren’t used to getting up in the morning! Quite a challenge to get here! And then, to do some 
physical labor, and I always fed them at lunchtime. And they weren’t used to eating a meal. Like, they 
had just been eating potato chips and...so they got food, and I made them real meals—and sometimes it 
was vegetables from the garden, you know, cooked green beans or corn or whatever, and there was this 
one guy, every time I put a different vegetable out, he’d say, “this is ri-dic-uh-lous. I’ve never ate this in 
my life! This is ri-dic-uh lous!” That was his favorite thing, saying....anyway, they all managed to get 
through their number of weeks; and I don’t think any of them ended up on a farm. But they all said that 
they felt better—they physically felt better, you know, coming....having a place to come, some structure, 
doing some physical thing. They all felt better. They liked that, yeah. So that was another thing that he 
did, the adjunct—I don’t know, instructor, for ATC. It’s hard, you know, it’s funny, you just forget—you 
forget these things. And there was a boy that was brought by a sheriff—he spent the summer here. A 
boy that got in trouble and would have had to go to jail, and we had him....he was a little younger, he 
was only about sixteen. We had him for the summer. 
1:17:59 
HH: Yeah, you’ve had lots of different people come here. 
SG: Lots of different people, lots of different people. 
HH: Well, I don’t want to keep you too much longer. 
SG: Well, I didn’t know how much you needed, and how much—just hoping Pete comes back.... 
HH: Well, I’m not gonna get my hopes up about that! 
SG: It looks like he’s not coming back, it looks like the rake was more important! 
1:18:31 
HH: I just want to ask—can I just ask you a few more questions? 
SG: Yeah, you can! 
HH: Ok, because a lot of my questions you’ve already covered them. You know, all these things are kind 
of tied together, it seems like. 
SG: Yeah, they are. They are.  
1:18:46 
HH: But, I’m curious—well, I just wanted to ask you about what...you’ve talked about labor, but what 
are the biggest challenges? Or what have been, for the two of you, or you know, your biggest challenges 
over your time in farming? Or what do you see as the biggest challenges today? 
SG: Well, labor is a huge one, and then the price of the product we receive. I mean, we have....we have 
always weathered the really low points. But really—the compensation is a hurdle. It truly is a hurdle. If I 
hadn’t had my teaching job, our children probably would’ve maybe gone to community college, you 
know, and as a teacher education is really important to me! And many farmers have a second income. 
Now, I went to Europe quite a few years ago—I think when my oldest daughter was a freshman in 
college—went to France, because I’m a French teacher too....anyway, we get to this castle. The reason 
we went to the castle had nothing to do with dairy farming, but it was just a little excursion and in a 
tower of the castle was a bulk tank! It was a steel bulk tank, and a dairy farmer who milked ten cows! So 
I talked to him about his....coming from a dairy farm... “What is your life like?” “Ah, I milk ten cows!” I 
said, “Do you crop, do you hay?” “Oh yes, I have a tractor, I have--”…he had a full line of machinery for 
his little hay field! “Do you ever go on vacation?” “Oh yes, the government sends someone here to take 
care of my cows.” He had a life, a middle class life, a nice car, a nice little home, milking ten cows. This 
was so shocking to me. It still is. The compensation that dairy farmers get....and that’s the reason that, in 
my opinion, the farms have grown so huge, so that a farmer can have a life.A middle class life. Just a 
middle class life, send his kids to college....so, we wouldn’t have been able to do that without my—and it 
doesn’t seem right to me. When I think of the hours and hours and hours that my husband has put in, 
had put in over the years, and the expertise, and his college education. It’s just a very unfair 
compensation.  
1:22:15 
HH: You said you really do like your co-op. 
SG: Yes, we do like our co-op very much. 
HH: Have you been with them—I mean, how long have you been with them? 
SG: Well, we were always with a co-op that we like, there were a number of small co-ops in the area; 
and then, I don’t know the exact chronology, but little by little the smaller co-ops joined forces. And 
AgriMark was actually based in Massachusetts, and now their main office is gonna be in Burlington; and 
Blake is a local director, so he gets to learn a lot about the co-op. And I guess a lot of my positive feelings 
about the co-op are from the meetings that Blake has been to, he’s very impressed with the product, 
and he went to a national convention and the cheese—is high, high quality, so we’re pretty confident 
we’ll have a market for the milk. And there is a little bit of profit sharing that will come about, like when 
we leave—I can’t explain the mechanics of it....so, we think it’s a good co-op. There’s someone from our 
co-op who has been involved with the Farm Bill that also failed, and that was going to address issues of 
overproduction, and so we really had high hopes about that too because when the production goes 
extremely high, then that’s followed by a terrible dip—more farmers go out of business. So anyway, we 
had some input into that, as a way for farmers to purchase a little bit of insurance, that was part of the 
Farm Bill.  But the Republicans were mad about the food stamp aspect of it, and they—that was another 
huge disappointment.  
1:24:32 
HH: You may have already answered this, but what is—what has been the most enjoyable or satisfying 
aspect of farming for you? 
SG: The most enjoyable aspect is the environment. Part of it, we have created ourselves because my 
husband comes from the Pennsylvania Dutch stock that puts a lot of emphasis on stewardship of the 
land, and care of the buildings; and when we first came here, we saw a lot of buildings that were falling 
down and a lot of metal in the form of old vehicles or old machinery with weeds growing up around, 
which is totally goes against the grain of someone of Pennsylvania Dutch stock. And so both here and at 
Blake’s farm—now, the Thompsons maintained a very clean farmstead but the people that followed the 
Thompsons pretty much trashed the place. Can’t tell you how much scrap metal had to be take out; it 
was a huge cleanup on Blake’s part and our whole family, huge cleanup. Anyway, so, the caring for the 
land....is very satisfying, and seeing how beautiful it can be....growing the crops, harvesting the crops, all 
those different elements involved; caring for the animals. It’s really a beautiful life. And the other part is, 
a tremendously positive way to raise your children, with values of working together was a family, right? 
And understanding the value of hard work, and how to have fun together....it’s not necessarily based on 
having a lot of money, right? Tremendous fun, we had tremendous fun. I guess that’s the main thing.  
1:27:12 
HH: Well, is there anything else you’d like to add, or remark upon for the record? 
SG: For the record! Well, I just want to say what a nice opportunity—well,nice is not a good word...what 
a wonderful opportunity to reflect on things you don’t usually take the time to reflect on, right? I’m very 
grateful for this opportunity because....if it has to do with the Library of Congress, it’ll be there forever! 
I’ve been there.  
1:27:59 
HH: Well, thank you very much, I appreciate your time.... 
SG: Thank you, Hannah! 
Ends 1:28:02