AFC 2020/004: 41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
Ray Young Bear 
 
Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples Poetry 
Poem commentary by Ray Young Bear, 2020 
 
Speaker: Ray Young Bear 
Date of recording: August 26, 2020 
Location: Meskwaki Settlement, Iowa, poet's home 
Length: 7 minutes, 9 seconds 
 
START OF RECORDING 
 
[Ray Young Bear reads and performs "Wichihaka/The One I Live With"] 
 
Ray Young Bear:  My contribution to "Living Nations, Living Words: A Map of First Peoples 
Poetry" is a Meskwaki word-song called "The One I Live With/Wichihaka.” It was composed in 
2005 for Wasakekwe, who is Stella Lasley-Young Bear, my companion. Her Eagle Clan name, 
Wasakekwe, means "The Sun's Glint on a Turning Eagle's Wing."  
 
Not only does the song acknowledge the exquisiteness of her Woodland-style applique dress, 
oftentimes a family heirloom, it also compliments Stella's beauty. Rendered musically in 
Meskwaki and translated poetically into English, "The One I Live With" signifies my endearment 
for a companion who has shared half a century with me on the Meskwaki Settlement, our 
home.    
 
This song was inspired by a traditional dance dress my late grandmother and mother wore 
during their lifetimes. From photographs of the dress taken around the 1930s, it may have been 
made before, making it close to being a century old.  
 
The black velvet dress and blouse is decorated with floral designs outlined with white beads 
with light blue, gold and red beads on the inside.  
 
During our 1985 Woodland Singers & Dancers tour of The Netherlands, Stella was fortunate to 
wear this finery because someone long ago sat for hours, days and months, beading in the 
lines, so that it may glide upon completion, over the earth in dance. From its existence, the 
finely-beaded velvet dress has heard so much tribal music, both social and sacred, that it 
virtually becomes a living element in the proper care of its beneficiaries.    
 
With that as preface, Stella's song was drafted around 2005.  
 
It was then published in the Yellow Medicine Review and The Iowa Review, in 2007 and 2008 
respectively. Over the years the song has been updated through the addition of "Ke-," in the 
song's start or lead vocal, which essentially means "Your" in Meskwaki. This makes the song 
more personal. This song can be used, as presented here, in a social or tribal celebration dance 
setting where women are in traditional dance apparel.   
 
END OF RECORDING