DENNIS KAYE & JULIA GALGON, Clock repair
Katy Clune  0:00
All right, so it is May 6, 2021 Katy Clune here with Julia Gartrell. And I'll ask you both to start 
out by introducing who you are and what you do.
Dennis Kaye  0:14
Okay, my name is Dennis KayeI am an horologist.
Julia Galgon  [JG] 0:18
My name is Julia Galgon and I am his assistant.
KC  0:23
And Julia, would you be okay with moving a tiny bit closer to the mic? Perfect. Alright, Dennis, 
tell us how you got into this profession.
DK  0:38
I bought a store when I was about 23 years old that fixed everything including clocks. And when 
I sold the store I continued to repair the clocks. That was the high ticket item. That's how I got 
started. I'm basically self taught.
Julia Gartrell [JCG] 0:53
Where was the store?
DK  0:54
It was in New Jersey in Bergenfield, New Jersey, it was called the Wizard Repair Shop, we fixed 
everything. Everything. You name it, we fixed it. Except televisions.
JCG  1:06
What is the, kind of, strangest thing that went through that shop that you had to repair?
DK  1:12
We used to fix the embalming machines for the local funeral homes. How's that? Is that pretty, 
uh? Cause who else is gonna fix that, right? I mean, where they going to bring that?
KC  1:24
I didn't even know there were embalming machines.
DK  1:27
Yes, yes. Used to fix the---- we did that a couple of times.
JCG  1:32
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
So you bought the store at 23 and that was in the 70s? 80s?
DK  1:38
Yeah, '77 maybe.
KC  1:42
And what were you doing, like, before that opportunity presented itself? Why did you think that
was a good move at the moment?
DK  1:57
Well, I just came upon it because somebody owned the store that hired subcontractors to fix
everything in the store. And they would just work at night. And my wife at the time was a hair
cutter and worked next door and I used to go pick her up and it was always give me another hour,
give me another hour. So I said I might as well make some money while I'm waiting for you.
And I ended up buying the store. That's that's how it worked out.
KC  2:23
And you said you, it eventually specialized in clocks?
DK  2:26
No, they didn't specialize in clocks, they just--- one of the items that they repaired, there was
clocks. That was the high ticket item. And we repaired vacuum cleaners. A lot of vacuum
cleaner, a lot of answering machines, a lot of sewing machines.
KC  2:44
Anything else that....
DK  2:45
Electric knives, people used to bring electric can openers. You know, in those days, they were
expensive. They weren't just throwaway items, you know? What else did we repair.... stereos,
clocks. You name it, and people used to come in with belt buckles, all kinds of stuff, They'd
come in with, we'd fix it.
KC  3:10
It sounds like a lot of those things aren't really used as much today.
DK  3:17
Like what?
KC  3:18
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Electric can openers?
DK  3:17
Well, they're throwaway today. They break you just throm 'em away buy a new one. Oh, people
would come to me with an old can opener and they had the original box and kept it in their attic,
they go to the attic and come in with the original box from 10 years earlier. You know, and
because new ones were a little more expensive, you know. But today they're they're $8 you just
throw away a new one. 20 dollars for good one, you know electric knives, we used to fix a lot of
those. We used to fix a lot of hedge clippers. I'm going back a long time, I have to remember,
this. We used to fix a lot of hedge clippers.
JCG  3:57
How long did you have that store?
DK  4:02
Probably had that store for about six years. Six or seven years.
JCG  4:08
And what happened?
DK  4:09
I sold it.
JCG  4:11
Why did you decide to get out at that time?
DK  4:13
Because I realized that it was becoming more of a disposable society. So I got out of the
business.
JCG  4:19
So like the late seventies to mid eighties that was the time where stuff was--- you were starting to
see a quality change and then [inaudible].
DK  4:28
Yeah, yeah. Not necessarily a quality change. Just the change in the manufacturing of it. So they
just became throw aways. Prices came down on a lot of the items, so.
KC  4:45
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
You're hitting on reason, another reason we're really interested in this subject. Can you illustrate,
like use an example or give us a story that backs up what you just said? Like being in that
moment of seeing the way things were going with stuff getting cheaper and metal parts being
replaced for plastic?
DK  5:11
Well, the retail price for items were coming down. We fixed a lot of toaster ovens, an awful lot of
toaster ovens, an awful lot of toasters. You know, all that stuff became throw away. You know, no
one fixes a toaster anymore. Even a toaster oven anymore, you can probably can't even bring it
any place to get it fixed. You know, just throw it buy a new one. They're $25 you know,
KC  5:37
And what would be, like, the price of a really good toaster oven in the 50s, 60s. To give context
for someone who only has ever known a $20 toaster.
DK  5:52
Well, we used to charge I think about $8 to replace---- to fix a toaster back in those days. So
toasters, I don't know what they were retail. I don't remember. I don't remember. But they were
heavier. They were made out of--- I have a couple inside I can show you they were made out of
bigger, thicker metal. And they were heavier and it's just the way they were made. So it was
more expensive then they came out and used aluminum I guess, right? Just sheet aluminum and
they were lighter and less expensive per manufacturer. So. I mean there's still expensive
appliances you can still buy today. You know, people I guess would have to get them fixed.
You're not gonna throw away a $250 toaster oven. Someone's got to be able to fix that.
KC  6:43
And you said you're pretty much self taught.
DK  6:45
Mm hmm.
KC  6:46
Tell us about that.
DK  6:49
I'm pretty much self tught on everything I do.
KC  6:52
So when you bought the Wizard Repair Shop, did you know how to fix things?
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DK  7:00
Yeah, sure.
KC  7:01
So you're already kind of....
DK  7:03
Yeah, I was always handy. So I can you know. Yes.
JCG  7:08
But it was just you and no internet.
DK  7:10
No internet. No YouTube to look it up. Nope.
JCG  7:13
So you were just figuring stuff out as you went.
DK  7:15
Yeah, yeah, the owner of the store, and it was three or four other guys that work part time
between all of us, we were able to figure everything out. Yes. We fixed everything.
JCG  7:26
What happened when you sold the store? Did you stay in repair?
DK  7:33
No.
JCG  7:34
Is that when you specialized in the clocks?
DK  7:36
No. I still continued to do some clocks. But I didn't go into it and dive all the way into it. After
that I worked in the video business, doing commercials and videos for corporate sector. We did
training videos, that kind of stuff. And then we became like the largest lab on the East Coast for
transferring people's home movies into into VHS tapes at the time. We had a big transfer
downstairs about 1500 locations we'd pick up from, and we would transfer that. We would do
that for a while.
KC  8:23
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
That was in New Jersey?
DK  8:24
That was in New Jersey and that was in Edgewater. I was living in New Jersey at the time near
Fort Lee.
KC  8:29
Would you keep up---- so you were like fixing clocks on the side as they came to you?
DK  8:35
Yeah. You know, little here a little there.
KC  8:39
And when did you reopen a business proper?
DK  8:47
About 1988 I think, in '89 maybe. Around that period of time, maybe a little later than that. 90,
maybe something like that? Yes.
KC  9:03
What was it called and where was it?
DK  9:05
It was called Advanced Clock Repair. It was in New Jersey outta my house in Cliffside Park,
New Jersey. That's where, that's where I opened up. I was a, I was a single mom. So I had to do
something from home. And that's what I did.
KC  9:24
And Julia, tell us a little bit about your background and how you find yourself sitting here today.
JG  9:31
Oh dear. So I originally went to school for political science. And then I went to a different
college for auctioneering which is super random.
KC  9:43
I didn't know that there was degree programs for auctioneering.
JG  9:45
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
So it's not a degree program per se. It's as many credits as an Associates but they shove it into six
months. So you're in class 12 hours every Saturday and Sunday and doing---- they call up
practical experience they're like, kind of like a more on hand internship.
JCG  10:04
An apprenticeship kind of?
JG  10:05
Kind of but----
DK  10:07
The instructors talk really fast so they go through it [laughter]
KC  10:11
[ask for an auctioneering demonstration]
JG  10:12
I can, you have to like practice that every single day to like warm up, be at that kind of pace. And
I'm way too out of practice now. But I did personal property appraisals for a while. And then I
ended up working in sales for Frito Lay, and I hated it. I hated the corporate world, I it's just not
for me, I don't do well behind the desk. I'd always really liked working with my hands. And last
year, he put out an ad on Facebook, saying he was looking for some help. And I was like, Well,
why not? It doesn't hurt to apply. And here we are. A little over a year later, a year and a half
later now. And I've been learning everyday since.
JCG  11:00
What's your role in the shop?
JG  11:03
I fixed the Seiko and battery movement clocks, basically the ones that are a little easier to repair.
They don't require a lot of technical skill. There's not a lot of gears to work with that kind of
thing.
DK  11:15
Right, Seiko sends their stuff to us. We're the authorized, Seiko for certain clocks that they make.
So they send it to us, they don't fix them.
KC  11:29
So would you call Julia and apprentice?
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DK  11:33
Sure.
KC  11:34
Why were you motivated to get some help?
DK  11:36
[Laughs] Because they were piling up, there's no way that one person was able to do it. So I got
her and she started doing the Seiko clocks. And we knocked them out and caught up. We were, I
dunno, six months behind maybe even more in some of them.
JG  11:51
The phone never stops ringing here, you would not believe.
DK  11:54
Never stops. Never stops.
JG  11:55
I would never have guessed before working here that clock repair was an in demand business. I
didn't know people cared about their clocks. Like I work with old stuff, right? In auctioneering.
You are always touching old people stuff in the States, right? You find weird stuff in their
houses. But I never thought people cared about it. My parents are both immigrants, so the
immigrant community has a different idea on stuff, right? So I thought Americans just, like,
throw away everything. Like that's just, that's what I assumed. I knew like grandparents kept
stuff, but I didn't know like younger people kept stuff. But we get a surprising amount of people
in their 30s , 50s who are like, yeah, this was my mom's or this is my dad's or this was my you
know, great, great grandparents or whatever. And they're trying to fix their clock.
DK  12:41
It's all sentimental pieces, just about.
JG  12:44
Very surprised.
DK  12:45
Here in the south, in the north it's different. In the north you get, we get a lot of really expensive
clocks. Don't get much of that.
JCG  12:54
Why do you think that's different geographically?
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DK  12:59
I think maybe people who have not travelled to Europe more, bring them back with them. or
something, I'm not really sure. But here we get mostly mostly American clocks that you know,
really have very little value.
JG  13:10
It's a wealth thing. I think the South is generally newer. So when I lived in Pennsylvania, you had
people who like, Oh, my great, great grandfather was on the Mayflower or something crazy, you
know. Down here, it's just like, I don't know where my family's from. Maybe they fought in the
Civil War, I have no idea. You know, they don't, I don't, the lineage doesn't go as far back,
people just don't have the history.
JCG  13:38
So do you derive different types of pleasure out of working? I mean, is it like, is it satisfying to
work on like, a very fancy clock? Or, you know, like, Is it different when you're doing something
that you know, just to kind of priceless heirloom, versus something that's....?
KC  13:58
Yeah, do you miss the variety of impressive Northern clocks?
DK  14:02
I get a lot of stuff sent to me. So I get some nice pieces sent in. So I do get those to work on. But
everything, every clock is a piece of art, you know, so everything is different. I appreciate it for
the art that it is.
KC  14:21
Would you give us a beginners lesson on describing a little bit of clock history and general types
of clocks?
DK  14:31
A history on clocks?
KC  14:32
Just to catch us up in a very broad sense.
DK  14:35
You mean you want me to start in in 1540? With Eddy[?]
KC  14:41
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Go ahead! Yeah, let's hear it. [crosstalk]
DK  14:48
To tell you the truth I'm not really good historian when it comes to that stuff and more in the
mechanic. I don't really know all these brands of clocks. Like all these purists know, and they
keep---- I don't, I just know the movement and I can fix it, you know. But clocks started with
sundials is really what, where it all started from, right? And evolved into gears and watches. I
mean, they're making watches in the 1600s. Making little tiny, tiny gears it's crazy. When you
think about it.
JCG  15:23
I mean, it's kind of hard to imagine, like we have watches that we can carry around, we have of
course, the ubiquitous phone. But even 20 years ago, when people weren't carrying phones
around all the time, a wall clock or a mantle clock wass actually a more significant---- it
probably held more value in the home in a way.
DK  15:46
Right. It wasused more. People needed it, or wristwatches. And a lot of people were wearing
watches today, you're wearing a watch, you're both wearing a watch. Well, that's a different thing
[points at Katy's Apple watch]. But just the regular standard watch, you know, not something
hooked up to your cell phone. You know, a lot of people wear, wear watches, you know. For
dress, for business, you know, gives them that, that look when they have their Rolex on, you
know.  So that business is not gonna go away for a long time.
KC  16:21
Tell us about the kind of clocks you repair here.
DK  16:26
There's all different kinds. All different kinds, grandfather clocks, grandmother clocks, wall
clocks, mantel clocks, English, American..... Electric clocks, most people don't do electric
clocks, and we fix electric clocks. I have a huge supply of motors for all the electric clocks, I sell
parts all the time for that stuff. We do a lot of cuckoo clocks. I don't know why, but we do. You
know, they're just like, they're the Geo [automotive] of clocks. You know, they're just not very
well made. And they're difficult. If you breathe on them too hard, they don't work, you know, but
we fix them. All kinds of electric clocks, all kinds. Do a lot of conversions lately from the old
electric to battery. Like somebody has an old kitchen clock doesn't have any value, but it doesn't
pay to fix it and you can just convert it to a quartz clock. They don't even have to have a plug
nearby at that point. They can go any place---- we do a lot of those. A lot of the Atmos clocks
which you pointed out before those---- I'm an Atmos expert, I'm one of like five in the country,
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
they all know me. Probably only person sells parts for them. At one time I was the only person
that sold part for the Atmos clock.
KC  17:56
What is the Atmos clock?
DK  17:57
The Atmos clock is that clock that you saw inside, it's just a square clock that's gold, brass, gold
colored. They run on a change in in temperature. They're very accurate. They require no
lubrication. They require very little maintenance maybe once every 20 years. You know, either
you like it or you don't. It's one of those gaudy kind of looking clocks either you like it or you
don't. But I've always liked them.
KC  18:25
Is it super minimalist, like I didn't see it.
JCG  18:28
We'll show you.
DK  18:29
It's about this big [gestures].
JCG  18:30
How much does the temperature have to change to keep it going?
DK  18:34
2% change in temperature, will wind it for 48 hours.
JCG  18:39
So it's....
DK  18:41
A 2% change.
JCG  18:42
Right, I'm just trying to calculate it. It's 100 degrees and it goes down to 98. But obviously, it'd
be more like it's 70 degrees and it goes to....
DK  18:50
Well 2% would be 1.4 degrees at 70. Right?
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JCG  18:59
I'm not sure
JG  18:59
Like, I need to pull out a calculator.
KC  19:02
I just smile and nod when math comes up. [laughing, crosstalk].
DK  19:11
I got a question for you.
KC  19:13
Sure.
DK  19:14
In the old in the old days, they had these, these clock radios, that numbers that flipped right? Or
sometimes they lit up with the number but most of them they just flipped. What would you----
what kind of a clock would you call that? Would that be a digital clock or would that be an
analog clock. What would you call that?
KC  19:34
A radial clock.
DK  19:35
Radio?
KC  19:36
Radial.
DK  19:37
Oh radial.
KC  19:38
I just made it up.
DK  19:39
Yeah. Why?
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  19:43
Because it's mechanical. It's not computerized.
DK  19:47
And that's true. It isn't analog clock. But in those days we used to call those digital clocks
because they were digits instead of having a hand going around. They called digital clocks. But
the vernacular has change because digital now means something different. In those days that
were no digital circuits, logic circuits. So, the vernacular---- it's just an interesting tidbit.
KC  20:10
I wouldn't have known` but it makes total sense. Yeah.
JCG  20:14
You mentioned in your list grandfather clock, grandmother clock. What's a grandmother clock?
DK  20:21
Shorter. Grandfather clock is six feet or taller mother grandmother clock's a little shorter five feet
tall. Just like grandma, that's right. Five one.
KC  20:36
Have you noticed any trends in the last few years with regards to what kind of clocks people are
interested in or are getting fixed?
DK  20:50
No, no. It's, it's really all the same coming in. Wall clocks and and mantel clocks. And and
tambor clocks, mostly, They're clocks that these people just found in their grandparents attic
when they cleaned out the house, and they remembered as a kid chiming. And then they bring it
in to get it fixed. They want it's---- it's a nostalgic thing.
KC  21:12
Any watch repair?
DK  21:14
Only complicated and, and vintage stuff. I don't do, you know, battery replacement or anything
like that.
JCG  21:23
When people come in with a nostalgic clock, do they want to unload the story on you? Do I want
to make sure you know..... [Julia nods] Oh, Julia says "yes"
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  21:33
Do you have an example?
JG  21:37
Offhand, no. But I remember we got a clock once it was just a little shelf clock I actually have a
photo of it still. And on the back of it was pasted his like, great grandmother, it's from 1906, their
wedding invitation. And it's pasted on the back and it was their wedding gift. And I don't think
he really brought it up when he brought it to us. But on the way, you know, when he picked it up,
I was like, oh, wow, this is like impressive. And he was like, Oh, yeah, it was kind of cool. But,
and I was like, oh, okay, and he like gives him this whole story about how it's been through, you
know, so many moves, and it's been in this box and in that box. And finally it's going to see the
light of day again, after you know, almost 100 years or whatever. But you know,
DK  22:20
We just had that guy that was crying.
JG  22:22
Oh, yes, the guy cried the other day, he picked up his clock and----
DK  22:26
A big burly guy wearing a jumpsuit. Right? He came in with this clock that was just old, you
know, just a brass clocks, unusual looking. Went about this big, you know, brass clock, it was all
dirty. So we polished the whole thing up and fix the whole thing inside. He was crying when he
saw it. This was his grandparents' clock. And he remembered it as a kid. And he was just so
thrilled that---- and it came out great. It looked great. But no, he was he was unbelievable.
JG  22:53
I think his mom or something had just passed. So just talking to us about how they were going to
sell the family house in Pennsylvania. And like, I think it was just a lot of emotion for him. And
then he saw the clock looking really good and he's like Oh my god. Like he couldn't handle it. He
was literally talking all the way out the door.
DK  23:10
But to answer your question, the answer is yes. Most people do give me the story behind the
clock. You know, sometimes too much. More information than I care to know. You know.
JCG  23:27
They think if you tell---- if they tell you that story, you're going to do an extra good job, or
something. Or that it's, you know, their story is particularly interesting.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DK  23:38
To them it's a treasure that can come at people that come in here with a, with a replica Korean
clock or a clock from India, which really has very little value. And to them it's like make sure
you don't scratch it, you know, this was in my family. And you know, to them, it's worth a
fortune. It has unlimited value. Priceless. So, you know, everybody feels that way about their
stuff.
KC  24:10
And let's back up a bit and give me a sense of how many, like how is the field of horology doing?
How many of you.....?
DK  24:19
It's never been bett---- I had the best year last year I've ever had. Even during the pandemic and
this year is just as good. We're now six to eight months behind on any repair. At least. I have a
woman picking up a clock on Friday. I've had it for two years. I Have one piece there about three
years already. But nobody else will fix that stuff because I had the Wizard I can fix anything you
know the clock repair people aren't going to fix these kind of clocks that they're dropping off.
Some of this stuff is just you know, odd odd clocks. It's one that's kinda like a slot machine
clock. It looks like----  I forget what's in there. But it's an advertising clock that rotates different
ads in it or something to that effect. And it's not working. So no one's gonna fix that kind of stuff.
Except that guy Rick on TV. You know, what show is that? You know, the show?
JG  24:32
Repair Shop? On Netflix.
DK  25:21
Yeah. Yeah, Rick, they bring. Yeah. Yeah, they bring everything to Rick. And he fixes
everything. Old CocaCola machines and all that stuff. I can fix all that stuff.
JCG  25:33
So the field you think is going strong? Are there...?
DK  25:36
Yeah.
JCG  25:37
Is there---- are there meetups or conferences? Or like, do you feel like you're in a network? You
know, or hologists? At least it sounds like definitely you know in this area. Do you know
nationally?
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DK  25:46
Well, me personally, I know a lot of the clock repair people across the country because I do a lot
of services for the trade. So they all know me. You know, and I know them. There are meetups
with the association that we belong to, but I don't normally go. I've gone a few times, and they
don't open it up to the public. It's only amongst the people. So it's just really not even worth
going. I'm online, several lists servers, you know, people all over the world, you know, four or
500 people on a list server. So we help each other quite a bit there.
JCG  26:28
When you have a tough question. Like when you're like, I have no idea what to do with this.
Unknown Speaker  26:31
Yeah, or if you need a part, you know, anybody have a junker laying around? You got this part?
You know, kind of a thing, too, when they just discuss other things. I just breeze through a couple
100 messages a day just breeze through them. Because you know, a lot of people just talk about
nothing. But that's what they do.
JG  26:48
Julia, are you on this list?
JG  26:50
Um, I'm on one for the Seiko repair people.
DK  26:53
That's the one I created.
JG  26:55
Yeah. Which is really nice, because there are not that many people who do Seiko repair. But I
mean, a few weeks ago, we needed a transmission for one of the clocks. And we were able to
reach out and somebody actually had the part. So that was really nice. And then that guy's name
is Delton. I don't know where he's based out of, but I was emailing back and forth with him. And
his daughter actually does clock repair as well, which was interesting to find out because I don't
know that there's a lot of women in this business. So.
DK  27:27
She's in Little Rock.
JG  27:29
Yeah, I couldn't remember.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JCG  27:31
Do you think this is something you're gonna stick with for a while?
JG  27:34
For a while, yeah, for sure.
JCG  27:37
Because one thing we've been curious about in a lot of the repair fields is that, um, passing it on.
Yeah, there's not the next generation necessarily coming up.
DK  27:47
This is a big problem. A very big problem. I have desperately been seeking somebody to teach
and take over this industry. This my business, I hate to just, you know, sell everything for
pennies on the dollar and close the door one day, and it's gonna happen soon, because I don't
really want to---- everybody gets burnt out whatever you do. But you know, to find somebody
who is capable. Who is--- it's got to be someone who, I usually when I ask, it's got to be someone
who can do his own brake job his own oil change on his car. Someone who knows how to work
with their hands. They gotta be---  can't teach the aptitude. Someone has to have that innate
aptitude, you know, to do this, because it involves so many different things. You know, it's not
just rebuilding transmissions, you know, we do the cases we do the dials, we do, you know, make
all kinds of parts. There's just so many different things like any artist.  I have all the same artists
supplies that you have, well, you know, mineral spirits, and turpentine, and acetone and
[inaudible], all that stuff. And hundreds of spray cans of different colors. Because, you know,
that we need all of that
JCG  29:01
Well it takes a certain amount of judgment, to do that artistic side, that---- I am friends with
engineers that don't have that, like there's not an aesthetic part of their brain. You can do the
engineering part of clock repair. And I imagine a lot of people are fine with that. But then the
judgment around how you make it look like the clock, it's....
DK  29:27
It's an art, it's an art in itself. You know, I've have a lot of friends that are engineers, also most of
them are musicians. Almost every friend that I have is a musician always been that way. And you
know, they're all artists, you know, musicians or artists. So this is an art form also, a little
different.
KC  29:46
So, if Julia sticks around and is interested, is that--- do you hope to be able to train her on the
mechanical
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  29:54
It will take years.
DK  29:55
Yes, it's years to do that. It take years, absolutely. She, when she first started to work for me, she
was actually part time because she was going to go to school. And that was a career choice to do
it. And she was--- what were you going to school for, welding?
JG  30:14
I wanted to go to school to be an electrician.
KC  30:16
I've been thinking about that! Just because I'm burnt out of the office life too. Tell me about it.
JG  30:22
There's a great, there's a great program in Durham through the union great pay. School on the
weekends, though. So just you know, if you have a wife or you've got any, like, kids or anything
like that's, it's a lot. Um, the interview process is very interesting. And I messed up on the
interview. I, the last question was about how you handle like, emergency situations. And so I
don't really want to tell you this in this interview, but whatever. I had cut off my thumb or like,
partially, and that's what I decided to bring up is like, that's what I decided to tell you [Julia G.
and Katy react with facial expressions]. Exactly. Exactly. That was me in the inside, as I was
saying it. But like, I couldn't stop because I'd already started. Like, so. Yeah. They told me I
could interview again next year.
JCG  31:14
Are your hands ok?
JG  31:14
Yeah, they're totally fine. But like--- safety was maybe not my top concern. So, so I have to
re-interview again, but they only do the program once a year. So it's it's a full--- have to wait
again, till the summer, I guess, to apply. But.
KC  31:35
And what are you enjoying about this so far?
JG  31:38
I like working with my hands. I like hearing the weird stories that people have to tell us. That's
always interesting. Clock people are crazy. In like a good way and a bad way. Like the people
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
who come to fix their clocks. They're like so into it in a way that I've never seen somebody so
obsessive, like you, it's got to be like this. And if it's just like, one centimeter off, or one, you
know, one 100th of a centimeter off. It's, it's wrong. And they are not afraid to tell you about it.
And that's always so interesting to me. Like people in sales are blunt, but not like that. It's a
different, it's a different world. It's a different experience, nothing that I've ever seen before. So
it's very interesting.
KC  32:27
It sounds like the people are both a joy and a challenge.
JG  32:32
Oh, for sure.
KC  32:33
From the stories, but also maybe the attitudes
DK  32:35
It's a joy for us because they're a challenge to themselves.
JG  32:39
Yes, yes. This is very good wording. We don't normally....
DK  32:45
How many people 50 years old don't know what the pendulum is. And you don't have to know
about clocks know what a pendulum is. I mean, everybody knows about the pendulum. Right.
The story of the pendulum in Pennsylvania the big pendulum in what museum is that in?
KC  33:02
American History Museum
DK  33:03
Is it American History Museum? Is that huge pendulum there?
KC  33:05
I love it, it's been swinging for...
DK  33:07
Yeah, I mean, how can you not know about that stuff? They don't even know what a pendulum
is. It's amazing. They call them handles. So don't pick it up by that.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  33:18
Like, what age are you talking about
DK  33:23
All ages, all ages, all ages. People 50, 60, 30, 25. They just they don't know the terms. I mean,
it's not anything that you need to know what a clock is. I'm mean I'm not a car mechanic but I
know what the steering wheel is, you know. You don't go bring your car to the into the into the
mechanic say that thing I turned to turn the wheels. You know? It's it's hard to turn that thing. I
don't know what you call it. I mean that we get that all the time.
KC  33:56
Does that make your job easy?
DK  33:58
Does that make my job easy? But it gets me [crosstalk] am I boring you? I'm kidding. Nobody
but it gives me a tremendous amount of incentive for stories when they leave.
JG  34:18
And be exciting in our day. That's like, sometimes the most exciting part of our day.
JCG  34:23
Like seeing someone struggling to describe a clock to you?
KC  34:28
And so you just let them go, see what happens?
JG  34:33
We try. It's hard sometimes. Some people don't want to listen.
DK  34:39
Yeah, and I explain to everybody that picks up a clock, how to operate their clock. Because in the
long run, if I spend that 10 minutes with them, when they're picking it up, it saves me trouble in
the long run. You know, they don't call me up with every little question. Back when I used to, I
used to buy and sell computers used to rebuild computers and sell them in the old days. And
people didn't know anything about computers. They'd call you up for every little question, you
know. So I learned my lesson there. But we tell them, and I can just watch when I'm showing
them, that they're just not getting it. You know, and it's not that difficult. It really isn't. To
understand it, but I just don't get it. Some people just don't get it. They just don't understand.
JCG  35:26
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Do you have a clock that you set all your clocks to?
DK  35:32
I do. That's the one that's hanging up on the wall behind my desk, that one gets a signal from
Colorado, and it's, it's precise.
JCG  35:43
Down to the...
DK  35:46
Well it's supposed to be to the second per month, I think is what it is. It's close enough.
JCG  35:51
How many clocks do you think you've set, in your lifetime?
DK  35:55
Repaired?
JCG  35:56
Like just set the time on.
DK  35:58
How many clocks I've just set the time on?
JCG  36:00
Right, you know, in the process of repairing them.
DK  36:06
I would have no idea. In the 1000s I'm sure. You know, I've been doing this like 45 years, you
know.
JG  36:15
Maybe like 100,000?
DK  36:17
I don't know about 100,000. But definitely in the 1000s [Julia asks about invoices] Well that's
only on the computer system. You know, 20 years before that I didn't use the computer it was all
handwritten. I can do a quick report and see how many clocks I repaired over the last you know,
10 years and give you that number. I have no idea, I don't keep a record. It's an interesting thing.
Never thought about it. How many I do.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JCG  36:47
What do you like about it?
KC  36:50
Or love about it? You've been doing it so long.
DK  36:52
Well you know, what I like about it is every clock even though it's a clock and its function is the
same, every one is different. They come in a different case. They ---- and as I said before, I
admire the art of it. So the case that it's in, and just what it is. And that's what I admire about it.
It's not like I have a desk job and I'm doing the same thing. And working on the same papers
every day and doing the same exact job every day, every day, something different is coming
across my desk. So you know that's always good.
KC  37:25
And how do you like the customer interaction?
DK  37:29
How do I like the customer interaction?
KC  37:31
Like... [laughs] they're probably not going to read this.
DK  37:38
Well. Look at it this way, when I sold my store, the Wizard Repair Shop I vowed never to get
into the retail business again. But they found me. When I first came here, I was doing no retail, I
was doing no retail, it was all wholesale business to other---- but they found me. So I couldn't
turn it down. And now there's nobody else so, that you know, and my name is out, I guess they
all know me, I have a pretty good reputation for the repair work that I do. I don't know how
much of reputation I have for my personality. But that's up to them, you know.
KC  38:17
And so you have a retail side as well?
DK  38:19
Locals. I mean, the local business here is my retail business. Cause I do a lot of mail in.  People
mail me in clocks that they can't find some----  a lot of electric clocks. I do a lot of things that
nobody else does. I think I'm the only person in the world that fixes, for instance, this particular
clock call than an ATO, which uses a electric coil and one battery and I can show you what one
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
looks like. It's got a rod, like a arc-ed rod that goes into the coil and just goes back and forth.
And the coil inside is actually two windings of the coil and one of the windings is open and it
doesn't work anymore. And I designed a little circuit that I built I actually have the transistors
and the resistors. And I just sit there and solder it onto a board that I designed many years ago
that uses the one good coil for both the trigger and impulse. It has two coils, one for trigger one
for impulse. So as as the magnet goes this, this pendulum has a magnet in half of it. So as the
magnet goes through the coil, it energizes the coil. That would be the trigger. And then it sends
through the little transistor inside. It sends current to the impulse coil which pushes it back out.
And that's, that's the, it's operation so I built a little circuit board that uses the one good coil for
both trigger and impulse. So it makes them work and I've done hundreds and hundreds of those. I
don't make much money on 'em,  just you know I just do it as a courtesy to all the other clock
people. So I get a lot of those send in. Sometimes more than then not. So yeah, stuff like that. A
lot of electric clocks get sent to me from all over the country. We get we get deliveries just about
every every day just about, just about.
KC  40:10
And how do people find you?
DK  40:16
I guess you'd have to ask them. They find me, they do a Google search, you know. Like who
repairs Atmos, who repairs electric clocks, and they find me. They find me through that. They
find me through the suppliers. They'll call up one of the suppliers or the clock shops will call a
supplier and say, Hey, do you know anybody. And they, one of them particularly gives my name
out to everybody. For all the electric stuff like those Pam clocks, advertising clocks, I designed a
little kit using a modern motor and make some work again, you know, much less expensive than
rebuilding the motor that was in there since 1952. You know, except for the purists that want the
original motor back in there, but if they just want the clock working. It's a better motor. It's all
metal. It's American made. And you know that, and they buy that from me, I get a lot of that.
You know?
JCG  41:18
I was I was just gonna comment that it's seems like you have a really diverse practice going on.
DK  41:25
With the clocks?
KC  41:26
Yeah. Well, what do you turn down?
JCG  41:27
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Yeah, like, What, what would you say no to?
DK  41:32
That's my that's my weak spot. I never turn anybody down. I really should. But I don't.
JG  41:38
He's been talking about maybe stopping taking customers for at least since January.
DK  41:44
Just to catch up. It'd be nice to take my boat out, one of the boats, to take him out into the water.
You know, this year? You know what I mean?
JCG  41:51
I'll take them, if you need them to just be exercised.
DK  41:54
Yeah, no problem. You want to do that? Okay, you have a driver's license and stuff?
JCG  41:59
Well, it's interesting, because even if you've stopped taking clocks, you have six, eight months
out. You still have a backlog to get to. You know, it's kind of it's kind of a---- does it feel
overwhelming? Or do you feel....
DK  42:15
Absolutely
JCG  42:16
....like on a day to day basis?
DK  42:17
Absolutely. Yeah. I don't even want to wake up and work anymore. I'm done. Because it's too
much. I don't even know where to start. But I'm at a good point right now. I have one clock that
went on fo two years that just  drove me crazy. Another guy, clock shop had it, around here, and
he just messed it up bad. So when I got it, it was just it was difficult. I do a lot of repair from
other clock shops that people send to me. [Inaudible] this guy, you know it local and national.
And after they screwed it up, and I get it and makes the job 10 times harder to, you know. So like
I get that a lot.
JCG  42:57
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
A few other repair specialists we talked to, like for example, example, we talked to a luthier, who
works on primarily on bass, upright bass.
DK  43:10
Works on what?
JCG  43:10
Upright basses.
DK  43:12
Oh, Ok cool.
JCG  43:13
And he said, onne thing that's cool is he'll open the, open the bass up. And they'll have been
repairs done by someone else, and that they either have a literal signature in there, where they
just signed their work or there's kind of a material signature, like the way they did the work. Do
clockmakers do any kind of--- do you leave a mark?
DK  43:35
Yeah, that's interesting you bring that up. Yes. Yeah, in the old days, they would--- I've seen a lot
of movements that have engraved in the actual clock movement itself. But I don't do that. I just
put a little tag on there. Usually a clock will have a tag of a person who fixed it and the date,
there's not even a date sometimes. I always put the date and the invoice number and my name.
And then just for the keeping the history of the clock, you know where it's been that kind of
thing. Yeah. But in the old days, they would sign their little initials and you don't even know who
they are. Anyway, just put the initials and the date clocks with a date of 1889 was fixed. You
know, I just tell them you should have brought it back to him.
JCG  44:21
They're still fixing the clocks from.... they're really behind
DK  44:24
Yeah, they're really behind [laughs]
JCG  44:27
What is the oldest clock that you've worked on?
DK  44:32
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Probably that Chris---- that one he just picked up. I had that one also about two years also from
another local guy here. That just messed it up big time. And that clock I think what did he say?
Was it dated like 1780 or something like.
JG  44:49
1776 I will never forget that.
DK  44:50
He said 1776.
JG  44:53
And I was like...
DK  44:55
Yeah, and he also said it--- well he's from Chapel Hill. And he said he had documentation to
prove that. Yeah, yeah.
JG  45:03
That was crazy.
DK  45:05
Yeah, I fixed that for him. He waited a couple of years. Very nice, man, very patient. But, you
know
KC  45:15
So overall, you feel like it's unusual to have, you know, the potential to pass the skill set on? Like
you say, there's a big demand of horologists. But if I was a young person and interested in today,
like, how do you get into the field, and care enough [crosstalk]?
DK  45:38
The problem is what Julia said before. You--- no one would ever imagine how busy, and of
course, the today we're sitting and the phone's not ringing at all. But that phone rings constantly.
Every day. All day long. It's just amazing how many people call and have a clock, they're
bringing tomorrow, I have four or five appointments tomorrow. It's just amazing. It amazes me.
KC  46:04
You should open a school.
DK  46:06
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Well, I was thinking about doing that too. I---- with a new school, I can teach a course at the new
school, I can do that. And then have all the students fix the clocks. You know, I can do that. But
you know, some of these things are just too precious to have some of these people mess them up.
I remember doing a a demonstration at my daughter's maybe fifth grade class, I guess at the time,
I don't remember what year was probably around fifth grade. And it was you know, what a
balance wheel. You know, and I'd tell the the kids "don't touch the little thing that's going back
and forth. It's very fragile, blah, blah, blah." And of course, by the time they pass it back, and I
got it the whole thing was bent [laughs]. So I don't know if I want to have these people. It may be
more trouble than... it may be. You know? I don't know.
JG  47:00
People are interested though, there are---- there's a school in York, Pennsylvania.  I think there's
another one through the N.A.W.C. [National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors]
DK  47:02
They have clock schools. But not many people are doing it anymore. Because no one would
think that it's it's a live business. But it's been better than it's ever been. Every person I talk to on
the phone, I talk to a lot of people across this country every day. And everyone's telling me
they're six months, eight months, 10 months, 12 months, 18 months behind. They tell people and
it's just amazing.
JCG  47:42
So what we need to do is spread the word that clock repair is hot. Get in while you can.
DK  47:49
Someone told me at one time there were 25 clock repair stores in Lee County. Here, in North
Carolina. Now there's zero. You know, we get a lot of people now from--- the last guy went outta
business, retired a couple months ago in a Fuquay-Varina. He worked out of his garage---- I
never, I never even knew he existed. And I know most of the people but he closed up and he's
giving his customers my name. I guess he knew me. So now there's nobody in Sanford. Well,
there's one place in Sanford I don't even know if he's doing repairs anymore. There's there's
nobody in Sanford there's nobody in Lumberton. There's nobody in Southern Pines, there's
nobody in Fayetteville. There's nobody in Fuquay-Varina. So I'm getting that whole corridor
coming to me from Southern Pines and the whole area they're all coming to me now. It's a lot of
people. I had a guy call me up from Fayetteville. He had a grandfather clock and I said, I can't go
that far, it just doesn't pay, you know. And he couldn't find, there was nobody to do it. So I was
kidding around with him. I said, Look, if I have to come to Fayetteville, I gotta be---- I gotta
charge you $500 just to come out there today. You know, by the time I get there and fix and come
back. Five hours plus the repair. He says: do it. Gave me five hundred dollars, I went to fix his
clock.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  49:11
Next time, say more. 750.
DK  49:18
I had--- everyone tells me I should charge more because I don't charge enough. Everyone tells
me that.
KC  49:23
How muchh would you---- to give us a sense, like a clock that you would have taken in the
Wizard versus today? Like give us a sense of what you charge?
DK  49:33
How much would a clock---- how much did we charge for clocks in those days?
KC  49:37
No, how much have---- maybe your problem is you haven't raised your prices?
DK  49:42
Since 1977?
KC  49:44
I don't know, tell me!
JCG  49:47
I think you have.
KC  49:47
Without showing your cards.
DK  49:50
To tell you the truth I can't remember what we charged for repairs but they were probably in the
$100 range. You know, and now we're up to to three and $400. About. Everyone's different, you
know.
KC  50:03
And about how many hours would you spend on a repair that you charge about $400 for?
DK  50:11
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Try to base it on $50 an hour, but it doesn't always work out. Sometimes I win, sometimes I lose,
but I try to base it on that. But it's, you know, I can't charge $1,000 because are they going to pay
that. I don't know. That's the---- and I want to sleep at night, you know? Because there is
somebody around here, off the record, that that does that he'll go to your house, no matter what
you have, it's 1200 bucks. And some people say yes. See he's smarter than I am, because he's
doing a lot less work than I am. And he's making more money, probably, you know. But doesn't
make them a good person, you know? So.
KC  50:52
And do you get all kinds of people, in with clock repair, or is it more like a specific kind of
person?
DK  50:58
Tall people, short people, skinny people, fat people.
KC  51:05
I mean, I'm like asking, like, is it typically people with money or like, just all different kinds?
DK  51:10
Economic background? Yeah, well, this is a wealthy area. You know, this is pretty wealthy. So
we got a lot of people that have decent expendable income, and they know that they're spending
a lot more than their clock is worth. And they ask me, How much can I get for this clock? Or
what's its worth, and I tell them the truth, every time. I say, you know, they'll pay me $400 for
repair, I say, look, if you put this up on Facebook Marketplace, or Craigslist for $300, they're not
going to be knocking down your door for it. You know, that's the line I give them. So, you know,
they know, it's not worth it, but it's their grandmother's, and they want it to work and you know,
and they fix it. So we get people who can afford it. I mean, you know, I get people in here, that,
and I tell them $100 and they thought it'd be $30 to fix the clock. I can't do anything for $30
anymore. You know, I have insurance, if I drop your clock it's gonna cost me money, you know.
So there's a risk that I take, taking in a clock. So, you know, take that into the factor. But it
doesn't mean that they don't have the money that they they don't have that money and they can't
afford it. They just don't want to spend it on that, you know?
KC  52:22
They don't understand the value. Like what goes into it or how much time it takes.
DK  52:25
Right. You know, and then of course, you have the people that say, you know, coming in with a
with a wall clock and they say how much. And we tell them it's, you know, $125 to fix it put a
whole new movement in there. And they say, wel I only paid you know, $20 for this. Yeah, but
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
that was like 1957. $20 in 1957 is not $20 today. Oh, oh, yeah yeah. You know, you get that kind
of reaction. You get that a lot.
JCG  52:58
Has anybody ever brought in a clock that is like wildly expensive? Like they maybe didn't know
what they had like Antiques Roadshow style, where you're like, this is actually worth $20,000!
DK  53:10
Yeah, but usually they know, usually they know. Yeah, I had forgot--- I have a customer in South
Carolina that had some unbelievable pieces. All museum stuff that he inherited, and he would
drop them off and I'd fix him. He just picked--- I mean some really elaborate stuff really nice
stuff. You know, it's really really nice, very unusual. You know.
KC  53:34
Will you share a story of a clock that you did a repair job you're particularly proud of?
DK  53:41
That I'm proud of?
KC  53:42
Yeah, like careers greatest accomplishments.
DK  53:45
Where's that clock coming from? That guy, Riddle? What's his name? The electric clock in there.
JG  53:53
Oh, Indiana
DK  53:54
Indiana, yeah. I'll show it to you when we go inside. Huge like this, a double sided clock from
Indiana. Electric and we refitted electric movements but I'm not extremely proud of that. It's just
a decent job. You know, worked out well, but he--- but they sent it to me from Indiana and you're
talking about something that's gonna cost you know $80 to ship or $90 just to ship it each way.
You know, I also have an account in New Jersey Ophear[?] Galleries, happens to be a friend of
mine from many years ago. But he has very expensive pieces. I don't think he's got anything in
the store less than $10,000. So he sends me the clocks that he has, mostly Tiffany, part of a
Tiffany desk set. You where know they have the blotter and you know--- how many people want
this anymore, you know? But some some people do. They're basically American Chelsea clocks
but it's got the Tiffany name on it. You know, and I also have Tiffany, they're one of my
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
customers too. I do, I do a lot of work with Tiffany their stuff. And Movato sometimes, but
Tiffany all the time.
KC  55:01
Are clocks still made in America? Are there any US manufacturers or are they...?
DK  55:10
Good question. I don't think there are. I don't think there are.  You know, mostly German. And
then of course India and, Japan and China, they make a lot of parts. Because one time a lot of
them were made in America. Well, Chelsea still makes clocks. And they're in America---- still up
in Boston. So Chelsea's still in business. But all the others like Seth Thomas, and all those other
names from Thomasville Connecticut, and, you know, Boston clock they're out of business, all
those places.
KC  55:47
Well now it's like Shinola, do you know that company, out of Detroit? they make watches, and
they're expensive, but part of it is an American made watch.
DK  55:57
Modern stuff. I'm not really well versed on the modern stuff.
KC  56:05
[Inaudible]
JCG  56:11
So just going back to Katie's question, the pride is maybe not the individual services, but it's
more like the fact that people are calling you specifically, and like that you're a well known
specialist at this point. Like that is really impressive.
DK  56:25
Yeah I guess on certain clocks. Yeah. Yep. It's true.
KC  56:31
Sort of the farther the clock comes to---- the farthest away the clock is from, the more pride it
gives kind of. Bcause they had to, like, it's about your specific skill set.
DK  56:43
Oh yeah, I mean, I get I get orders from Japan, I get orders from Italy, the UK. I send pieces----
there was a piece in Dubai. You know, I don't like to do that often. Because most countries you
know, never make it to the, to the end user, you know. And most--- a lot of countries like
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
Mexico, are not going to make it to the people anything of value, you know, Italy got lost but a
second shipment I made made it. UK, of course, is easy. So yeah we send all over the world, we
send parts, because nobody else has a lot of the parts that I have. I bought out clock shops for
years, and just piled it into my garage and sorted out the stuff and I have stuff that nobody else
has.
KC  57:34
Will you give us a peek into your garage?
DK  57:36
Of course, of course I will.
JCG  57:38
I know we have two family clocks. I'm just gonna [have my dad] send me pictures.
KC  57:43
We ask this question of everyone because it's fun to hear the different answers. Do you have a
favorite tool?
JG  57:52
That's a weird question. [laughs]
DK  57:58
Do I have a favorite tool? Lemme think about that. I do. I do have a favorite tool. Type of a tool.
I have a favorite screwdriver. I'd have to say. They don't make them anymore. I have a Philips
and a having a regular one. And the regular one is broken at the moment but it's the kind that--- it
holds the screw and it's got like these two clips on it. So you can put the screw in the slot, and the
clips hold it. And you can screw it and then just pull the screwdriver back and they bounce back.
It's been on, it's always been one of my favorite tools. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I've seen 'em on eBay
you can probably buy 'em I have to fix this one. But yeah, that's always been a favorite tool. It
was a good idea how they did that. There's other tools that hold screws to put them in, I have one
that that splits the actual end of it like the slot it's like cut in half and then they overlap a little bit
so if you push down the tube they kind of hold the screw. You can reach in, and but the first one I
like, always liked that one.  I had a pair of pliers that I really liked, but I lost them. I remember
exactly where I left them and I went back  two minutes later and they were gone. And I never
saw another pair of pliers like that I've searched and searched and searched and never saw
another pair of pliers like that. It was like a like a vise grip type, you know where you can, where
you  unscrew it to size.This one was like self adjusting. I don't remember who made it but it was
an amazing pair of pliers, and I lost those.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
KC  59:45
I hope whoever has them appreciates them.
DK  59:49
Sure they  still have them. That's 30 years ago, maybe I lost those. I've been looking for 'em ever
since.
KC  59:58
Well, so if we ask someone the question and they describe a tool like that we'll let you know.
DK  1:00:06
Yes. I should do some more searching online for it now that things have opened up. These things
are online, but I have searched for it I can never find it, never. You know?
KC  1:00:18
Um just to touch on something. And what we're reaching close to the end because I want to make
sure we've got time to talk inside a little bit. But to touch on something Julia said earlier, women
hologists? How many are there.
DK  1:00:32
Women  horologists? Yeah, there's a lot. There's plenty. Yeah, there was a woman in Tarrboro.
Don't know if she's still alive or not. Her husband was and she was she's a master watch repair
person. I know online on the list server there's one or two. But generally, it's mostly men. As far
as I know. Yeah. It's it's mostly it's mostly men.
KC  1:01:08
Any additional thoughts on that?
JG  1:01:11
That's what I've seen.
DK  1:01:12
Yeah, it's mostly men. Wonder why.
JG  1:01:15
There are some fairly active novice [Katy interjects to move mic]
KC  1:01:23
It's actually working really well, to share [the mic] between you guys.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
JG  1:01:26
Good. There are some very active novice, like amateur women on the--- there's a lot of Facebook
groups for people who want to repair clocks. Who are like looking for parts, or they want to
show off what they've done. There are quite a few women on there. But for the most part, it's
only men that I've seen. It's men who, we go....
DK  1:01:48
[crosstalk] I've only scratched the surface looking at those. I wonder if they have any impact on
bringing back you know, clock repairs. There's a lot of amateur groups on Facebook talking
about clock: Look what I found what I bought.
KC  1:02:03
It's the same for typewriters. My sister's into that.
DK  1:02:07
Is into typewriters?
KC  1:02:08
Yep
JG  1:02:09
Is she also a writer?
DK  1:02:10
The old manual typewriters.
KC  1:02:13
She got into it in the, in the pandemic. She--- my mom gave her my grandma's and she started
researching and then trying to find old ones that looked interesting for cheap and taking them
apart and cleaning them. And you've, like people do that and sell certain ones for quite a lot of
money.
DK  1:02:34
We to fix those all the time. Also, if [inaudible] fix typewriters like crazy. And then we fix the
IBM Selectric we used to fix a lot of those. I was --- when I first moved there, I was buying them
from the surplus place like for $5 and fixing them and flipping them, you know?
KC  1:02:54
Yeah, we interview that, the typewriter repairman we talked to actually he decided when
computers came online that he wanted to stay typewriter and that like other paper machines, like
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
paper, like envelope openers and photo copiers, but he wanted to stay away from the personal
computer because of the customer questions.
JCG  1:03:21
The same thing people call him with 100 questions.
KC  1:03:25
Whereas the typewriter you know you put it on the table and type [laughs]. People get it.
DK  1:03:30
Yeah, but really, it's not as efficient.
KC  1:03:34
No, but it's fun.
DK  1:03:36
I've got a couple of cases of correct type if he's interested.
KC  1:03:41
What's correct type?
DK  1:03:42
Oh, you don't know what correct type is? Let's say---- not the liquid, the liquid now liquid paper
but used to be correct type is another brand, and it was just there like a ribbon with like a white
ink on it. So if you made a mistake with the R you'd go back over here and type the same R
mistake and put the little ribbon in there and it just covered with white ink and you can type your
regular you know letter over it was correct type. Used to sell that like crazy.
JCG  1:04:12
Okay woah, a beautiful lizard.  Just as we're kind of wrapping up, is there anything else either of
you would like to share about the clock repair industry? Its past present future, your experiences?
DK  1:04:29
There's lots of different levels of clock repair. There's a lot of guys out that are so much smarter
than I am that work on some really intense pieces. I don't know why but they do it's just a hobby.
You know they they tweak them and make them accurate within a second the year and you know
electric clocks they just really get into it. You know and I never did that but there's there's guys
out there that do all kinds. There's better machinists you know, I don't do all the machining I do
some I have a lathe, but I don't do all machining. You have to be prepared for that, you know,
and I--- it just doesn't pay for the once in a great time that I need to have this tool to make this
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
piece to have it. So that kind of stuff I send out. And so there's people who do only that only,
machining for clock parts, you know, so I see a long life in this business, I see a good 10 to 15
years easy, you know. And then if we can re purpose, some of these clocks that I have in the
garage, which we've--- we've sold a couple on Etsy,
KC  1:05:38
I'm glad you brought that up. Tell us about that
Unknown Speaker  1:05:41
What's in the garage? Well, like, you know, I can show you a couple. I gave a couple to some
friends that are artists, and didn't tell them what the other person did and say, here's a clock do
something. And people came back with some pretty interesting ideas. You know, one they just
stencilled and another one they they glued a photograph to it and dipped it in epoxy. And another
one they just took like a paper cutter that cuts, you know hole cutters?  And just took a
tremendous amount of different colored of little pieces that they punched out and glued it to the
clock. And I didn't really like that one to tell you the truth. But once I put the movement in it, it
became my favorite clock. I said, Wow, this really looks nice. We sold that one. First. That was
the first one to sell. It looked very amateurish, but amateurish, but you know, once we put a
movement in it look great. So. So some other methods...
KC  1:06:39
Do you sell those under the same business name?
DK  1:06:42
Yeah, we put them on Etsy, we're not very successful in selling that stuff. I wish we, we need
more of a [crosstalk] we need to team up with somebody.
KC  1:06:53
Yeah. But also The Scrap Exchange has an art gallery. And they sell specifically repurposed kind
of things. So I'll give you my contact information.
DK  1:07:03
Yeah I need to check that place out.
JCG  1:07:07
If you had like a series.
KC  1:07:09
You could just drop off 10. And they could be in there.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell
DK  1:07:13
And they can repurpose them. There's artists there that will mess around with them?
KC  1:07:16
No I mean if you want to sell the repurposed ones.
DK  1:07:19
Oh, repurposed ones, I'll take them on a consignment basis. Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah. But
you know, it's hard to do that, I mean drive up there and drop off 10 clocks. I need someone who
can do that. That's a great idea. And that's what I wanted to do. I you know, put them in, in you
know, beauty salons or something, you know, just a couple clocks here and there, you know, and
see what sells. But I don't have the time to go around and do that. But that's---- we need to do
something like that. I have so much stuff to get rid of. Okay.
JCG  1:07:57
[chatter, Katy and Julia offer to decorate clocks]
DK  1:08:01
I have a couple of cases, you can mess around, I'll show you what I have in the garage.
KC  1:08:09
Well, I think we're ready to wrap it up and....
DK  1:08:13
Have we concluded?
KC  1:08:14
I think we've concluded. Unless you have any last words of advice for any aspiring horologists
out there.
DK  1:08:23
No, I think we've covered it all. I mean, I wish there were some aspiring horologists out there. I
need their phone number. Yeah.
KC  1:08:34
Thank you so much Dennis and Julia. Thank you.
afc2020009_016--Dennis Kaye and Julia Galgon  interview conducted by Katy Clune and Julia Gartrell