Finding Roots: Asian American Farmers in Contemporary America 
Lan Dinh 
March 23, 2021 
Interview conducted by Katelyn Reuther 
Lan Dinh is one of the co-founders of Vietlead in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
This was a 
remote interview conducted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Lan Dinh joined the 
interview from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Katie Reuther joined from Boston, 
Massachusetts. 
Interview Log 
00:00:00 
Introductions 
00:00:39 
When Lan was growing up, everything was centered around food. Those are the 
memories that stick out the most from her youth. Her family always came home 
for dinner and ate together, no matter where they were. They ate simple meals of 
rice, broth, sauteed vegetables, and a 
protein/meat dish. Her parents had a 
lot of 
joy in providing them with food. The vegetables they ate would often come from 
the garden, and Lan recalls having gourds and melons everywhere in the house. 
00:02:24 
Lan liked spending time in the garden when she was younger, even if it was just 
to play. Her parents would show them things in the garden, like how to harvest. 
When she got older, Lan realized what important lessons those were, including 
the lesson of taking care of the land and tending to the plants. 
00:03:20 
Lan enjoyed going outside, and she was curious about the plants. When she was 
young, the garden seemed like a 
big, lush jungle. Returning as an adult, she 
realizes that it was only a 
small, concrete area. 
00:04:07 
Lan's parents grew a 
lot of molokhia (jute), which they still grow today. They 
got the seeds from Vietnam, and this plant is one of their most prized possessions. 
She says you cannot find molokhia at any grocery store. They would also grow 
winter melons and squashes that could feed a 
lot of people and be trellised to save 
space. Lan describes frequently eating sweet potato leaves and many wild weeds 
that others pull out and discard. She only realized what these plants were when 
she started working on farms. 
00:06:46 
When Lan was young, she liked the plants. However, later on in middle school 
and beyond, she saw it as something uncool that her parents liked to do. She also 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
1 
equated having to grow their own food with being poor, which she says was the 
reality. They grew food to survive. Instead, she wanted to "buy food like normal 
people." 
In college, Lan did work study at a 
school garden. When she saw people there 
passionate about growing, she thought about it as something her parents did. 
Through learning about food justice, she realized that growing food is one of the 
most radical things you can do to be self-sufficient and in control of your own 
health, and she recognized that her parents had been doing that. It was a 
shift for 
her, and when she got older, she went through a 
process of reclaiming being 
proud of her parents and their skills and knowledge around farming. 
00:09:32 
Lan grew up with food being a 
strong component of her life and identity, so she 
didn't even have to think about it. When she did the college work study job and 
was exposed to the food justice world, it gave her tools and vocabulary to name 
the experiences she had already been living. She understood why it was so 
important for her parents to be growing their cultural crops, and why it is so 
important to continue to learn how to grow and cook their foods. Seeing it from 
another lens validated her own experiences. 
00:11:05 
Lan describes her work study job. When she was going to school at the University 
of Pennsylvania, she did a 
work study job at a 
high school through the Urban 
Nutrition Initiative. There, she was exposed to the concepts around food justice 
and food access, to different parts of the food system, and to where food comes 
from at every step. Coming from a 
family of farmers, she did understand that it 
takes a 
lot to grow food, but she was not aware of how unjust the food production 
process truly is. She could guess because of what she witnessed and heard from 
her parents, but this job gave her facts to solidify that understanding. 
She gained a 
lot from this first experience in the food justice movement, but there 
were also gaps in her experience that informed how she chose to continue this 
work. For example, while the staff working with the predominantly Black student 
population were staff of color, the administration staff, who wrote grants, directed 
the vision of the program, and created program content, were all white. Lan cites 
that as a 
difference between food justice and food sovereignty. There must be 
folks of color directing and deciding for themselves what access to food and a 
food system means for them. People of color must also be in leadership roles as 
those who have been most impacted by the creation of the food system in the 
United States and globally. 
When she was there, she asked herself what her role was as a 
Vietnamese woman, 
and she realized it was not to be a 
leader for the Black community doing food 
work, but instead, to organize her own community. She thought of her parents and 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
2 
other elders growing food, and she asked herself what it would look like to do that 
programming and community work with her own community. That work 
experience started her on the journey to where she is now. 
00:15:38 
While studying public health in college, Lan took a 
number of food courses. The 
work study job seemed aligned with that interest. In her first few years at the 
University of Pennsylvania, she was very socially isolated from her Philadelphia 
community. In a 
huge way, it was deeply healing for Lan to be back in 
Philadelphia schools for the work study job. She chose it, but had no idea it would 
take her to where she is now. 
00:16:53 
After the work study job, Lan was interested in many different things. She wanted 
to continue working with high school students to do education and hands-on 
learning. She also wanted to farm, but knew she needed more farming experience. 
Once she graduated, she did a 
popular education teaching program before 
spending two years at the University of California Santa Cruz's Center for 
Agroecology. Throughout her time in California, she stayed connected with 
Vietnamese comrades in Philadelphia who shared her values and vision for 
community organizing. Upon her return to Philadelphia, they co-founded 
Vietlead. 
00:18:46 
Lan describes why she chose the program at the University of California (UC) 
Santa Cruz. First, the apprentices live on the farm, and she liked the idea of being 
immersed with the land. It was also a 
mix of hands-on and practical knowledge, 
and as a 
hands-on person, she wanted that experience. Because she had lived in 
Philadelphia her whole life, she was excited to go to California and find out more 
about the Asian American community there. 
00:20:19 
Lan recounts her time at UC Santa Cruz. Being with the land taught her a 
lot; it 
was her greatest teacher. There were many great instructors, but there was also a 
big gap. For Lan and many other apprentices, that gap was a 
lack of racial 
analysis in the teaching curriculum. For example, being on land but not talking 
about how that land was stolen, or failing to acknowledge the existing wisdom 
around how to caretake that land. At the program, they credited organic 
agriculture to a 
white European man, which shocked Lan. She and other 
apprentices would meet and organize about what they wanted as apprentices of 
color, and how to hold the program accountable. She says the staff did not know 
how to reach the program's vision of promoting equity. 
During her second year, Lan worked with other second-year apprentices to make 
institutional changes around the curriculum. She learned a 
lot more management 
skills and did more hands-on learning. It also gave her time to create curriculum, 
which she still uses today at Vietlead. While she was there, she reflected a 
lot on 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
3 
how she went to California to feel validated. When she was in Philadelphia, she 
was not getting jobs, because she didn't have credentials to be a 
farmer. However, 
once she was getting those credentials, it validated the knowledge she already had 
from her mom. UC Santa Cruz gave her more skills and practice, but it also 
validated how much wisdom her parents had already instilled in her around 
growing. 
00:24:30 
Lan lists some of the curriculum changes she and others recommended at UC 
Santa Cruz: hire a 
permanent staff of color; institutionalize anti-oppression 
training so everyone has a 
foundational understanding; offer and require courses 
that include the history of agriculture to give people a 
shared understanding of the 
roles of communities of color in building the food system. 
At the end of the day, if the institution is still white-led and isn't one hundred 
percent invested in transformative change, organizing can only do so much. 
Ultimately, Lan feels that the program's actions have not changed in the end. She 
decided that instead of working to change white institutions, she wanted to build 
her own. That was a 
big push for her and her Vietnamese comrades to co-found a 
different institution and community organization. 
00:27:32 
All along, Lan knew she wanted to return to Philadelphia and be there long-term. 
She always saw her time at UC Santa Cruz as an important learning opportunity 
that would end with her coming back and sharing her knowledge. 
00:27:56 
Lan was twenty-three to twenty-four years old when at UC Santa Cruz. 
00:28:20 
Lan and her Vietnamese comrades continued to talk while she was living in 
California, and when she returned, they began planning. 
00:28:37 
She co-founded Vietlead with Nancy Nguyen and Duong Ly. They wanted to 
create an organization that pushed folks on their politics and created community 
leaders. They set out to be unapologetically progressive and clear about their 
social justice values. 
00:29:58 
When Lan worked at her old job in the school garden, Nancy and Duong came to 
visit. Lan learned that there were other Vietnamese folks doing organizing and 
social justice work. 
00:30:47 
Lan describes their values at Vietlead. She says their articulation around those 
values has changed over the years. The organization's mantra is heal, resist, grow. 
Because of the trauma of resettlement and people's varied experiences with the 
motherland, their community exists on a 
wide spectrum politically, economically, 
and emotionally. At Vietlead, they seek to provide a 
space for internal and 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
4 
interpersonal healing; create spaces for political education to learn more about 
themselves and their families; resist and fight for collective change on a 
larger 
scale. While healing the past and present and resisting to make institutional 
change, they also strive to grow the world they want. The farm comes in at all of 
those places: healing; contesting on stolen and hyper-gentrified land; growing 
new practices and new relationships. 
00:34:19 
Lan talks about the evolution of the organization since it began. In size, it has 
grown a 
lot. It started with around five part-time staff and no funding. When the 
youth program began, Lan and Duong led a 
cooking club that required students to 
bring their own supplies, such as knives and cutting boards. They also had a 
gardening club, but they were still trying to find land. Students would walk 
around the neighborhood and write down the location of vacant lots where they 
could grow a 
garden. Five years later, they have two garden sites: one is a 
half 
acre, and one is a 
school garden. 
Within their current after-school program, students can join three different 
activities: cooking, gardening, and civic engagement. When the organization 
started, they had around six students. Some of those students now run their youth 
program, and the program has grown to around thirty students. 
As Vietlead grew, they developed a 
leadership trellis with the intention of adding 
more comrades to share the work. They started by training students. Now, 
students Lan had five years ago are her comrades. 
At the beginning, they were just trying to survive, but now five years later, they 
are involved in three different organizing campaigns: a 
national campaign with 
the Southeast Asian Freedom Network around ending deportations; a 
healthy 
schools campaign in Philadelphia to address lead contamination in schools; an 
anti-gentrification campaign to protect an important Philadelphia plaza with 
ethnic supermarkets. 
As they built their community base, they listened to what people wanted and 
set out to organize and build campaigns that their communities are invested in 
and that are connected to Vietlead's programs. For example, the healthy schools 
and anti-gentrification campaigns came out of the gardening program. 
00:41:34 
Lan is currently on sabbatical, and says the other two co-founders will also take 
sabbaticals in the coming years. She reflects on the capacity and emotional labor 
it took to build up the organization and organize the community. For them, this is 
a 
time of realizing the importance of rest in order to stay fresh and prevent burn 
out. They want to make sure they are also healing and growing. Lan says that the 
biggest shift is that as they are growing, they are also slowing down. 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
5 
00:43:25 
In addition to being one of three co-founders, Lan is the Farm and Food 
Sovereignty Director at Vietlead. They have five different programs within the 
organization: youth organizing, health and healing, civic engagement, community 
defense, and food sovereignty. Lan directs and guides the Vietlead team, in 
addition to overseeing the food sovereignty program. She thinks through how to 
connect the food sovereignty program to the other programs at Vietlead. She also 
manages and takes care of the land and farms. 
00:45:18 
The food sovereignty program is closely connected with the youth program. There 
is a 
summer intensive that includes six-week-long paid internships where students 
are trained in food, political education, and community organizing skills. During 
the school year, they also offer farm and cooking internships for students. Over 
the summer, they have a 
weekly CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) with 
their neighbors. Their farm is half production and half community plots. 
The majority of the growers at their Camden, New Jersey, farm are Southeast 
Asian refugees. The program is intergenerational, with the elders teaching young 
people how to grow. The passing of an elder last year spurred them to do more to 
document the knowledge, skills, and practices of their elders. 
00:48:05 
They grow lots of Southeast Asian crops. The land team and students typically 
choose what is grown. Because the farm and school garden are within multiracial 
neighborhoods, many of the crops overlap with Latinx and Black crops. In 
addition to surveying the students and their neighbors about their crop 
preferences, they also consider what they grow well and what people are curious 
about learning how to grow. They then create a 
crop plan that balances all of those 
considerations. 
00:49:41 
The vision and hope is that most crops will be grown from saved seeds. Lan says 
their elders save seeds, and her mom instilled in her the importance of seed 
saving. For a 
lot of the Vietnamese crops, they have made an effort to save seed, 
including for gourds, bitter melon, and malabar spinach. The food sovereignty 
program partners with True Love Seeds to sell some of the seeds they have been 
keeping. Lan says they also source from Kitazawa Seed Company. 
00:51:34 
The ran clay seeds that her mom passed on to her feel special, as does growing 
bitter melon. Sweet potato leaves are also important to Lan. When she was 
growing at the first school garden, it was beautiful for her to see the overlap 
between Black and Asian crops. That overlap produced many moments of 
beautiful exchange, including sharing about the importance of sweet potatoes in 
the Black community and sweet potato leaves in the Vietnamese community. 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
6 
Lan grew up with ran muong (
water spinach), and she says many Vietnamese 
people love it. Because it is seen as an invasive crop, it is illegal to grow in some 
places and has gotten expensive. Vietnamese and Khmer folks brought sprigs of it 
over when they came, and it feels ancestral for Lan to grow it. There are also 
stories about it being carried, planted, and eaten by soldiers during the war. Lan 
says eating it feels like resistance. 
00:55:43 
Lan discusses what attracts the elders and youth to Vietlead's programming. She 
says Vietlead is a 
space for healing. A 
lot of the elders have limited English and 
had to adapt to a 
new culture after coming to the United States at an older age. 
They feel socially isolated, and the land and farm are a 
space they feel safe going 
to. It feels like theirs. 
At Vietlead, they believe in creating employment opportunities for their young 
people. At first, students might come for the money, but some continue to stay 
because they feel reconnected to land and drawn to another narrative of what life 
could be. Some of Vietlead's first students have shifted their focus to 
environmental studies and ecology because of their experiences with the land. 
00:59:03 
Lan recalls a 
significant memory from the program. Early on at Vietlead, they had 
a 
very shy student who barely spoke during the trainings. Each year, there are 
opportunities for students to return to the program, but they are required to take 
on more responsibilities. This student came back every year, which shocked Lan. 
Lan witnessed her growth, and now she is one of their coordinators. Lan never 
imagined when they first met that she would continue on for five years. This 
student is leading her own youth now and speaks and presents publicly about the 
farm. Lan watched her defy perceptions of being shy and step into leadership 
positions. 
1:01:18 
Lan never wanted to do this work alone. She wanted to do it in community and 
have a 
team around her. She knew she had to train people and build her team. The 
education piece is a 
step toward higher production growing. Right now, they are 
in the process of doing more for-profit growing, and they hope to transition to 
majority for-profit in order to be self-sustainable. They want the community to be 
funding and investing in the farm instead of relying on grants and similar types of 
funding sources. 
1:03:25 
Lan's mom is an important influential elder in her life. Lan's thinking around how 
they do their programming at Vietlead is shaped by watching her mom. Her mom 
has so many skills, but there are times when she feels helpless as a 
foreigner in 
this country. Lan sees her feeling her power when she is growing and cooking 
food. Lan's mom has inspired her thinking around how food can be a 
superhero 
power if we are able to tap into it. Lan's relationship with her mom has grown as 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
7 
they have explored issues of land and food together. Through Lan's questions 
about these topics, her mom realizes that Lan is actually interested, and that her 
own knowledge is of value. 
Lan has also seen this with other elders. They are excited to share their knowledge 
with youth. Questions around land and food create an opening for students to talk 
to their parents about their lives, journeys, and how they got to the United States. 
Many other amazing elders have influenced Lan at the farm. They have been 
passionate and stepped into their wisdom and knowledge around farming. 
1:07:17 
Lan says they center the leadership building of those who are Vietnamese and 
Southeast Asian. However, since they are in close proximity to other communities 
of color, their programs are open to Latinx and Black community members as 
well. They work in solidarity to build those partnerships and skills amongst their 
members. 
Many of the issues they take on at Vietlead are not just Southeast Asian issues, but 
more importantly, all of the issues within communities of color are intertwined. 
Thus, a 
lot of their work is solidarity work. At Vietlead, they work closely with 
Soil Generation, a 
coalition of Black and brown growers in Philadelphia. They 
have been fighting together to protect gardens in the city against gentrification. 
Vietlead has also done regional coalition work with Black and brown growers, 
such as participating in a 
mid-Atlantic agroecology convening. Lan says they are 
always trying to move with their Black and brown comrades, because it is still 
such a 
white-dominated food movement and world. 
At Soil Generation, they advocated for Black and brown leaders on the 
institutional level and won a 
seat at the decision making table for a 
new urban 
agriculture plan. Lan was one of the first members of Soil Generation. When they 
started five years ago, most organizations in Philadelphia were led by white 
people. But now, things have really changed. Those at organizations like Vietlead 
and Soil Generation have been a 
wrecking force holding institutions accountable 
for their hiring practices. 
In white spaces, being brave and speaking truth to power when needed is 
important, as is having communities of color continue to build their own 
institutions and have their work speak for itself. 
1:11:36 
Although Lan had reservations going into the creation of Vietlead, she has always 
believed in the organization's vision. She is grateful for the team's commitment 
and how much they have put in to building it. 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
8 
1:12:37 
Lan talks about the alienation, discrimination, and microaggressions she has 
experienced as an Asian American farmer. She says it was a 
slap in the face when 
she wasn't hired to run the Southeast Asian farming project in Philadelphia. She 
proposed programming centered on culturally relevant growing, training, and 
political education. Looking back, she knows they wouldn't have allowed her to 
do the work in the way she wanted to do it. 
In Santa Cruz, having to undergo a 
very Eurocentric curriculum felt oppressive, 
and facing ongoing gentrification and state-sanctioned displacement is an 
everyday struggle. Lan also mentions microaggressions that occur regularly, such 
as people assuming she is a 
man before they meet her. She notes that there are 
microaggressions that happen in community as well, such as the elders doubting 
her ability as a 
farmer because of her age and gender. 
Depending on who the community is, different discriminatory things occur. 
Before she worked in community, the white supremacy and microaggressions Lan 
experienced felt exhausting. She thought that working in community, those things 
wouldn't happen. However, she says that in community, it's a 
whole different set 
of triggers. It's much more personal because it's internalized. At the end of the 
day, she still wants to hold more space for the triggers within her own community, 
rather than the white supremacy microaggressions that she experiences outside of 
the community. 
1:17:55 
Lan describes the impacts of the events of 2020 on her work. During COVID, 
they couldn't depend on outside labor. There were only two or three of them 
working on the farm. Farming also felt more important than ever. As they thought 
about essential work, it felt good to grow food for people. With more public 
awareness of anti-Blackness and anti-Asian sentiment, it felt good to be holding 
space for the community to process those things. Through their political 
education, it also felt important for them to provide young people and community 
members with tools to unpack these topics. 
Lan has felt grateful to have a 
community to process with. It has been beautiful to 
have a 
space for Black, brown, and Southeast Asian young people to have a 
space 
to process and talk about what it means to be in solidarity with each other. 
At a 
time when being Asian is attacked, they are staying strong and doing things 
at the farm that are unapologetically Viet and unapologetically Asian. Being 
visible on land in public feels important at this time, as does being a 
space for 
young people to be proud of their history, themselves, their ancestors, the land, 
and the relationship of their ancestors to land. 
1:22:30 
In the future, Lan would like to have an Asian farming apprenticeship program 
that trains around Asian-specific techniques; transition to a 
for-profit farming 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
9 
model; transition a 
lot of their work to a 
cooperative model so that their 
community is economically invested in the organization (cooperative kitchen, 
cafe); fight against gentrification (create a 
land trust where their community is 
and where the plaza is to remove the fear of being displaced). 
1:24:50 
Lan would also like to see reparations for Black folks; reparations for Black 
farmers; funding to Black and brown farmers; more sustainable and successful 
Black and brown farms; transformation of the subsidy program so that the 
government subsidizes more than just cash crops (healthy crops, cultural crops 
important to Black and brown communities); more educational scholarships and 
opportunities to encourage Black and brown students to pursue agriculture; land 
reparations to Indigenous folks. How do we transform our capitalist society 
so that we have a 
food system centered in taking care of the land, paying people 
fairly for their labor, and immigration reform? There are many interconnected 
issues. 
1:27:42 
Lan gives advice to BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, people of color) trying to get into 
farming in the future: trust the wisdom and experience that lives in your blood. 
Your ancestors are with you every time you touch the soil. As you're growing 
food and healing yourself and your community, you're also healing your 
ancestors. When you're in a 
room and injustice is happening and you speak up, 
you're speaking for all of us. Your words are important, and when you say it, it's 
what many of us are thinking. Thank you for believing in yourself and trying. The 
system is meant so that we don't try to reconnect with our land and seek to be 
farmers and tend land. This is one of the most radical things BIPOC people can 
do. 
1:29:31 
After tending their half-acre farm in Camden, New Jersey, for five years, it was 
threatened to be demolished and sold. No one told them about it. Instead, they 
found out about these plans in the newspaper. The staff at Vietlead rallied the 
elderly and students to testify at a 
student council meeting, and they were granted 
a 
ninety-nine year lease from the school district. Everyone was shocked when 
they won. It reminded them that they need to have a 
voice in these things. For 
Lan, people's ability to fight for the farm in that way was a 
testament to how 
deeply they cared about it. 
1:32:13 
End of interview 
Lan Dinh Interview Log, March 23, 2021 
10