Civil Rights History Project 
Interview completed by the Southern Oral History Program 
under contract to the 
Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of African American History & Culture 
and the Library of Congress, 2013 
 
 
Interviewee:  
 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan 
Interview Date: 
 
March 18, 2013 
Location: 
Baltimore, Maryland 
Interviewer: 
 
 
Dr. John Dittmer 
Videographer:  
 
John Bishop 
Length: 
 
 
01:32:37  
 
John Bishop: Okay, and I’ll remove the first three takes. 
John Dittmer: Good. Thank you. Alright, now we’re going straight through. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan: [Laughing] Okay. 
John Dittmer: Today is Monday, March eighteenth, 2013. My name is John Dittmer, and 
I am here in Baltimore, Maryland, with videographer John Bishop to interview Martha Prescod 
Norman Noonan, an activist in the Civil Rights Movement. This interview will become part of 
the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, 
D.C. 
We are delighted to be here and thanks for taking time to talk with us. Let’s start with 
your family background. Where were you born and raised? Tell us something about your folks, 
your early experiences. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
2 
MN: I was born and raised in Providence, Rhode Island. My father was of West Indian 
descent. He is from the island of Saint Vincent, and he had migrated to Brooklyn in the early 
1920s, where later, about a decade later, he met my mother, who was born in Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, and went to New York to work in one of the—one of FDR’s Alphabet Agencies. And 
when she showed up, of course, there was no job. [Laughter] So, anyway, they met during the 
Depression and they married. And he became an optometrist, and they moved to Rhode Island. 
They were both activists. My father, I remember early my father was involved in some 
efforts for Pan-West Indian Unity. My mother came from a family that had migrated to Buxton, 
Ontario, in the 1850s, and her grandfather was an activist. And why can’t I think of his name 
[laughter] at this moment? But he was active in the Negro Convention Movement and the 
Underground Railroad, he was a minister, and so they had that tradition in her family. In Rhode 
Island, they joined the Progressive Party. At one point, my father was state chairman of the 
Progressive Party. 
JD: That was a left-wing organization. 
MN: I guess so. [Laughs] 
JD: And then, he got into trouble, didn’t he? 
MN: Well, he didn’t, not—well, yes, he did, actually. What I started to say was they tell 
me that my first political act was they took me to a—when I was three, they took me to an event 
for Henry Wallace, who was running for president. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And I must have heard, you know, conversation preceding the thing. And when his 
talk was over, I went up to him in that voice, you know, one of those loud voices that only a 
three-year-old can do, and said, “Well, you look like a nice man.” [Laughter] And he was so 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
3 
taken with it that I posed with him, and our picture was on the front page of the Providence 
Journal, they tell me. 
JD: Oh? 
MN: I always wanted to go back and look that up. 
JD: Oh, that would be marvelous. 
MN: Yeah. But, yeah, after his involvement, and I remember this event quite clearly. I 
think it was somebody from the FBI or from the immigration authority came to our house and 
threatened to deport him, even [though] he was a naturalized citizen. And I also remember that 
one of the other gentlemen in the group, who owned a factory, a jewelry factory—that was big in 
Providence, watches, costume jewelry—where my father had worked as he was losing his sight, 
he was called before HUAC and he knew that his financial life would be over just because of 
being called. And, of course, that was also on the front page of the Providence Journal. 
JD: This was during the McCarthy era— 
MN: Yes. 
JD: With the House Un-American Activities Committee. 
MN: Yes. Yes. Yes. He committed suicide. 
JD: Hmm. 
MN: It was very sad; committed suicide. So, my parents were very careful about 
activism. They did other things, like try to get a black teacher in the public schools—I think they 
were successful with that—and different ad hoc things, as they came along. 
JD: What was it like growing up in Providence, Rhode Island, a majority-white town in 
the North? 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
4 
MN: Well, it wasn’t very pleasant for me, and some of that was my parents’ decision 
[0:05:00]. My father began losing his sight when I was around five. He self-diagnosed. He knew 
he had glaucoma. And so, part of what they did, anticipating that his salary, you know, the 
finances in the household would be less, they closed his office and bought a house. It was an old 
funeral parlor in a white neighborhood. 
Now, we lived in a white neighborhood previously, but this particular neighborhood was 
not happy about our coming there. People threw stones through the window. A few times I got 
beaten up going back and forth to school. I called all kinds of names. One of the—the first time I 
ever heard “I am black and I am proud” was from my mother, who told me as a young child—I 
must have been about six years old—she said, “When, you know, people call you a ‘dirty black 
nigger,’” she said, “you don’t respond with any ethnic—” this was a very ethnic neighborhood, 
too. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: She said, “Don’t respond with any ethnic slurs. You say, ‘yes, I’m black and I’m 
proud of it.’” And that was my response at that time. 
JD: Ethnic neighborhood—was it Italian, Portuguese? 
MN: It was Italian, Greek—it was a mixture—Canadian. It was a mixture, yeah. 
JD: How many—were there many blacks in your elementary school? 
MN: Ah, no. [Laughs] I was the only black student when I went initially. And then, there 
was a second—I still remember. She looked like an angel. Marilyn Miller [laughter] came to 
school in little pigtails. So, there was just the two of us, Lexington Avenue Elementary School. 
For a brief time in junior high school, at Gilbert Stuart Junior High School, I was in a class with 
maybe four or five other black students. And then, my mother arranged for me to go to—
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
5 
arranged a scholarship and everything at a local Quaker prep school, Lincoln School for Girls. 
And I was the first and the only black student in the entire school, which ran from preschool all 
the way through high school. 
JD: Um-hmm, very exclusive school. [Laughs] 
MN: [Laughing] Yes. And then, a young woman from Hampton, Virginia, also came to 
the school in my sophomore year. 
JD: Who were your friends when you were growing up? 
MN: Oh. I made a couple of friends in the neighborhood. There was a family across the 
street from us, and actually the mother years later told me this very interesting story. She knew 
when we came—she told my children this story. She knew when we came to the community, you 
know, everybody was against it, including her husband. And she tried to think of what kind of 
gesture could she do. 
And so, as soon as my father put his little sign out, saying, you know, “Dr. George C. 
Prescott, Optometrist,” she came to get her eyes examined. And he had put his office sort of at 
the front of the house, and we divided the living room in half, so he had a little office. And she 
said while she was being examined, she realized he couldn’t see that well. But she went ahead 
with it. He understood, you know, the gesture. And so, when the glasses came in, he told her 
there was no charge. And she told my children that she was still using the same prescription forty 
years later. 
JD: Oh, that’s a marvelous story! 
MN: It’s a really nice story, yeah. So, you know, I was friends with her daughter. And 
there was a Canadian family a little ways, about a block away, and I got to know them quite well. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
6 
And at one time, I joined the Episcopal Church near us and I was friends with the priest’s 
daughter. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: And so, those were my kind of local friends. 
JD: Um-hmm. What was Lincoln High School like? 
MN: Ahm, of course, it was a—I started to say it was a wonderful educational 
experience, but it was to a certain point. I was not allowed to join the glee club. And I believe it 
was because at that time the girls prep school’s glee club would have concerts with [0:10:00] the 
boys prep school concerts, and they didn’t want me socializing with the young men. Now, when 
Carol came, she was such a phenomenal singer. She was also fair. You know, she did join the 
glee club. You know, my freshman math teacher told me I was too dumb to learn math. It was an 
interesting experience from that point of view, yeah. 
JD: Racially, things were starting to happen in the South when you were growing up. 
When Emmett Till was lynched in 1955, you were just, what, two or three years younger than 
he? He was fifteen at the time. 
MN: I was ten. 
JD: Oh, you were ten? Okay. Did that have an impact at all in the North? Of course, in 
the South, Movement people talk about that as sort of an iconic moment for them. 
MN: It’s very interesting that you should ask that, because I was thinking about—I just 
was thinking about it this past week. Because, yes, many of the women who are in Hands on the 
Freedom Plow describe themselves as children of the Emmett Till generation. I didn’t know 
anything about Emmett Till. My parents kept that from me until I was in college. 
JD: Oh? 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
7 
MN: And, in fact, what I think of is that I was a member of the Rosa Parks generation. Of 
course, because I was integrating schools, the whole process of school integration in the South 
resonated with me. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: And I kind of thought, you know, “If they can go through that, well, I can deal with 
a little insults and problems that I have to deal with.” 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: So, I knew Daisy Bates— 
JD: Oh? 
MN: And the Little Rock Nine. That’s one of my earliest memories. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: And I had the image fixed in my mind of these—because it was kindergarten 
students. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: It was elementary students, first graders, and college students integrating schools. 
And so, that—Autherine Lucy, I remember. 
JD: Um-hmm, yeah. 
MN: So, it was more the activism that I remember from being a young child. And, of 
course, one of the first books my mother gave me, the first books that I owned—we went to the 
library all the time—was Harriet Tubman. I think it was by Earl Conrad. That was the first one 
of the books she gave me. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
8 
JD: [Laughs] Good comedy author. 
MN: [Laughs] Right. 
JD: So, you did learn some Negro history, probably not in the schools, but through your 
family? 
MN: Yes. A lot of it was musical. My mother actually sang opera. 
JD: Oh? 
MN: And—but she also sang spirituals. So, you know, I learned all the old spirituals 
through her. And she contradicted not just black history—she taught me some black history, but 
she also taught me that the history that I was learning in school, the general history, was off. I 
remember at one time, you know, in the middle of all this anti-Communism and so forth, she said 
to me, “Oh!” [Sighs] She said, “Oh, they’re just mad because they can’t sell anything over there 
in China.” [Laughter] 
JD: That’s good! 
MN: So, it was both not trusting the history, and the other thing that I remember about 
her is she was a very serious churchwoman and went to church every Sunday. You know, she 
played for churches and so forth; she was also an organist. But on the occasions when the 
ministers might start to talk about the role of women and so forth, she would say, “Well, you 
know.” She said, “Martha Susan, it’s Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. You don’t see any women 
writing this, do you?” [Laughter] You know, take it with a grain of salt! 
JD: Tell me about your church. Was it a black church? 
MN: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Well, my parents went to Winter Street AME Zion Church. We 
were members at Winter Street. It was very small. The church was large. The church had been 
designed and built by a black architect. But the congregation had fallen off and was very small. I 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
9 
decided, you know, at some point that I wanted to be an Episcopalian. And my parents said, 
“Well, you can go there, but you still have to go to Sunday School and you have to go to church 
with us as a family.” [0:15:00] So, I spent a lot of Sundays, [laughs] in church all day. It was a 
wonderful small congregation. Everybody knew everybody. And because my father couldn’t see, 
I would sometimes accompany him to the trustee meetings and the other meetings. And so, I 
learned about basic meeting rules, order, and how things are handled, the finances and so forth, 
in an organization. 
JD: Um-hmm. Well, it came time for you to go to college, and you went to the University 
of Michigan. You’ve said that that wasn’t your first choice. Talk about the situation that led you 
to Ann Arbor. 
MN: [Laughs] Well, my mother was a graduate of the University of Michigan. She 
graduated at seventeen. 
JD: Wow. 
MN: Working her way through school, because her father died at nine, and so she had to 
help support her family, as well as go to high school and college. She determined that I should go 
to Michigan, too, and this was what she could pay for. At that time, there weren’t scholarships, 
the kind of financial aid that’s available now. So, she left Providence when I was a junior in high 
school, secured a job in Detroit, so that I would be certain to qualify for instate tuition— 
JD: Wow. 
MN: At the University of Michigan. 
JD: And you and your father stayed in Providence? 
MN: Yes. My parents lived apart for two years. 
JD: Because of you? 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
10 
MN: That’s right, so that I could go to the University of Michigan. And actually, what—
they loved this at Michigan—actually, what she told me was, “You’re going to the University of 
Michigan. And if you don’t get in, you’ll have to go to Michigan State.” [Laughter] 
JD: Yeah, they would love that! 
MN: Yeah. 
JD: So, you ended up at Ann Arbor at a time when things were starting to happen 
politically there, too. Tell us about your freshman year, your first year. 
MN: Well, of course, I didn’t expect anything. I wanted to go to Fisk, because I had seen 
a White Paper on the Nashville Movement. And my mother, of course, wouldn’t hear about it! 
[Laughter] When I got to Ann Arbor, actually, trying to remain a good Methodist that my parents 
had brought me up to be, I joined the Methodist Students Association on campus. And they had 
these Friday luncheons, brown bag events, and one of the early ones was they brought up two 
people from McComb, Mississippi. 
JD: Oh? 
MN: And I remember meeting Curtis Hayes, who is now Curtis Hayes Muhammad. They 
had a number of events that weekend. I followed them around to all the different events. Shortly 
after that, in that winter, Tom Hayden came back from a Freedom Ride in Albany, Georgia, and 
so we learned about that. I joined SDS— 
JD: Students for a Democratic Society. 
MN: Students for a Democratic Society, pretty much after I arrived on campus. They 
were the only organization talking about racism and what it meant. It was an all-white 
organization. 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
11 
MN: But—and peace. That was the other thing. 
JD: Were there many women in SDS at that time? 
MN: Yeah. It seemed—I think it was pretty evenly divided, men and women, um-hmm. 
And first—first, what I was doing was peace work. We had turned towards peace, I think, that 
fall, and so forth. And when Hayden came back to campus—and, of course, he was an alumni, 
too, so he was coming back to speak on this campus, and he had been editor of the Michigan 
Daily. He saw me in the office and he said, “I don’t—” you know, “Why are you doing this 
peace work when your people are in motion all over the South?” [Laughter] 
And so he invited a group of us to an SDS/SNCC meeting in April of 1962 in Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina. And it was just so—I think it was Sharon Jeffries, Mike [19:45], Cathy 
Ennis, Dick [19:47], and myself. We piled into this old car. We put five dollars in for gas each 
way [laughter] and we drove through the night to get there. [0:20:00] And it was just an 
extraordinary experience once I was there, yeah. 
JD: Um-hmm. Who was there? Do you remember? 
MN: I think everybody in SNCC who was not in jail was there. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: My recollection is that everybody was there, and the same think in SDS. And I often 
think how there were in this little chapel—this was maybe fifty people, maybe seventy-five—and 
I think from that small group, there was the Antiwar Movement and the Student Civil Rights 
Movement. 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
MN: Um-hmm. 
JD: Wow. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
12 
MN: Yeah. 
JD: So, with this in mind, after your freshman year, you decided you wanted to go south 
to work in the Movement. 
MN: I did. 
JD: But you didn’t right away. [Laughs] 
MN: I didn’t. I was seventeen at the time, and it was under the age of majority. And my 
parents were adamantly opposed. And so— 
JD: Did they tell you why? 
MN: [Pause] You know, that’s very interesting. I don’t think they ever said why. They 
just said, “No.” [Laughter] Well, they did talk about, and this, again, goes back to my mother’s 
experience at University of Michigan. After she finished undergraduate school, she was admitted 
to the law school at Michigan, along with, I think, about five other African American students. 
She felt that they were admitted by mistake, that because all of them had attended predominantly 
white schools, the law school didn’t realize they were accepting black students. And within a 
year and a half, they figured a way to flunk them out. 
JD: Wow. 
MN: And she felt unfairly, you know, excluded. So, her wish, of course—and I think this 
was pretty general at the time. Her wish, of course, was that I would go to law school or 
professional school. My father’s wish was that I would be an ophthalmologist. But I think it was 
a general wish of black parents whose children got into these white, majority-white schools. I 
mean, it was—we were a very small group. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: It was expected that you would become professional— 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
13 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: That you would sort of keep your nose clean. We called it “representing the race,” 
which, of course, I had been doing from second grade or whatever. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
MN: You know, you were supposed to be polite, your clothes are supposed to be clean, 
and you’re supposed to realize this—and it was—that you were given an incredible opportunity 
and that you should make the most of it. So, I think that was the path that they had set me on. It 
was a path for which they had made tremendous sacrifices. I don’t remember my—I mean, my 
mother was a musician. I don’t remember her ever being able to attend a concert. 
JD: Oh? 
MN: Because any little extra money they had went to my—to what she had to pay for me 
to go to high school. They did without in order to be able to provide the education. 
JD: So, instead of going south, you enrolled at Wayne State for summer school? 
MN: I went—that’s exactly what I did. At the end of my—in 1962, the summer of 1962, I 
enrolled at their insistence. And, of course, again, being very conscious of finances, my mother 
hoped that I would graduate in three years. 
JD: Oh. 
MN: You know, if you go to summer school— 
JD: Well, she graduated at seventeen. Why couldn’t you? [Laughs] 
MN: [Laughs] Right, exactly. It was so nice growing up with my mother. My mother was 
able to read—you know, I’d come home with a pile of books, you know, from school. 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
MN: She’d read them the first week. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
14 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: She’d know what was in them [laughter] and she would discuss them with me. I was 
just like—but anyway, so, I enrolled at Wayne State. I chose two courses by just guessing, 
because they were early in the morning. And I ended up with two professors who were in Facing 
Reality, a group led by C. L. R. James. [Laughs] 
JD: Wow! 
MN: It was George Rawick, who did a book on slavery, slave narratives, and Seymour 
Faber, who was a sociologist. And I picked them in the morning, because by that time, SNCC 
had sent Bernard LaFayette to Detroit to raise money. 
JD: Oh? 
MN: So, I spent the mornings in these classes, and the—Faber’s class was a class on 
social change. Rawick’s, [0:25:00] if I remember correctly, was European history from 1848 to 
1917. There was one revolution after another! [Laughter] 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And then, in the afternoons, I worked with Bernard and the Friends of SNCC group. 
Elizabeth Hershfeld, who was a Freedom Rider, was the main other person. But also a lot of 
young people who had been active in civil rights in Detroit joined the Friends of SNCC group. 
And a good number of them later became active on campus. They took over The South—the 
newspaper, Wayne State University’s The South End, and they were instrumental in the, um—
oh, the thing with Foreman and the black labor group. I’ll think of the name in a minute. 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
15 
MN: So, and they were—it was John Watson and Luke Tripp, and they were already 
supporting the North Carolina, Robert Williams, and they were reading Negroes with Guns, and 
they were getting the Peking Review. [Laughter] They were very political. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
MN: It was a very political group. And eventually we had people from a wide spectrum, 
of the left, from the Catholic Workers Party, just—it was just a nice group of people. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: But there was work to do, and that’s pretty much what we all did together. We just 
did support work for the students in the South. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re rolling. 
JD: Then in the fall you went back to Michigan. 
MN: I went back to Michigan, um-hmm. 
JD: And where was your mind that year? Were you concentrating on your studies? Did 
you have a plan? 
MN: Uh, no. I’m not even sure how much I went to class. I think I spent most of my time 
in the Student Activities Building. One of the things I want to mention that happened before I 
went—that summer that we did the Friends of SNCC work? 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: At the end of the summer, our culminating event was bringing Diane Nash to 
Detroit. 
JD: Who was very prominent in the SNCC and in the national sit-in movement. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
16 
MN: Yes. And at that time, she was working in Mississippi and she was under indictment 
in Mississippi. And her sort of tag line at the time was, “Yes, my baby might be born in jail, but 
anywhere a black child lives in Mississippi, they’re in jail already.” But what, I think, was 
important to me, as a young woman, was that she was the star of the summer. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: Bernard LaFayette is no mean speaker himself, but he chose to put her forward 
rather than himself. And the way he worked was very democratic, so I learned more about the 
SNCC way, and so forth, that summer. But to see her—she was nine months pregnant. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: She delivered—she left Michigan in labor, and it said a lot about what a woman 
could do in the Movement. 
JD: Um-hmm, yeah. 
MN: So, I went back to school. I set up a Friends of SNCC group in Ann Arbor. We 
brought the Freedom Singers in. We did a variety of activities. I think that’s ’62-63? 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
MN: That doesn’t sound—okay, it was ’62-63. I planned to go south in ’63 when I turned 
eighteen, but I didn’t. My parents came to visit me in the fall of 1962. 
JD: They were back in Providence then? 
MN: No, they’re in Detroit now. 
JD: Detroit, uh-huh. 
MN: See, my mother has moved to Detroit. And they realized I had difficulty 
remembering exactly where my classes were located. [Laughter] And they said, you know, 
“We’re not paying for you to sit in the Student Activities Building.” And I said, “Well, fine.” 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
17 
You know, “Don’t send me any more money. I’ll manage on my own.” [Laughter] The hubris of 
a kid! 
JD: Declaring your independence. 
MN: Right. And that was the case, you know. From then on, I had to make arrangements 
for my own education. 
JD: And then, in the summer of ’63, you do head south. 
MN: I do finally go south. 
JD: Defying your parents. 
MN: Right. I kept hoping in the winter [0:30:00] that I could convince them that it was 
okay. They made it clear that if I went, I would not be welcome to come back home again, and I 
didn’t want that situation. But I did slip away at the end of the semester in 1963. 
JD: And you ended up in Albany, Georgia. 
MN: I did. 
JD: With the project headed by Charles Sherrod. 
MN: Sherrod, yeah. 
JD: You were there a brief time, but talk about what it was like in Albany. 
MN: Well, the first thing we did was we had orientation in Sumter County. And that’s 
where, again, the whole SNCC philosophy of following what the people wanted, not thinking of 
yourself as a leader, but as someone who can be of assistance, and to listen to—to be guided by 
what community people wanted to have. 
Even—Albany, even, was fairly frightening to me. I was scared the whole time I was 
there. Shortly after I arrived, at orientation, a young woman, I believe, in Sumter County was 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
18 
raped by thirteen white men, one of whom was the, I think, the Sunbeam bread man, and he 
parked his truck in front of her house the whole time! 
JD: Uh. 
MN: She died from the infections and so forth that she received. And that—that was just 
a huge eye-opener for me, because I thought bad things happened, but I thought the really bad 
things were over. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
MN: And that wasn’t the case. And I thought something like that could happen to me. I 
mean, that was even more frightening. The Movement, I don’t know, they say at the time that the 
Movement was not what it had been before. I can only imagine what it had been before, because 
we were still having huge mass meetings. And, of course, the music— 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: The lining of the hymns and the music was just amazing. 
JD: Was Bernice Reagon there then? 
MN: No, because the Freedom Singers were on tour. 
JD: That’s right. 
MN: They were on tour, but— 
JD: But it all started there. [Laughter] 
MN: The music was just—the lining—Sherrod is no mean singer either. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: You know, he would lead the mass meetings and so forth. And Reverend Wells was 
there, and C. B. King was there. Going back to my parents, at one point—I felt kind of safe if I 
stayed within the black community. I felt like the real danger was when you started to march 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
19 
downtown, etcetera. So, I was staying in the black community. And still, they came around—
some of the police came around and arrested, kept arresting people, arresting people. 
So, Sherrod had us take sanctuary in a church, which we did. But then, I guess there were 
white men driving by with guns hanging out the window, and so forth. And Joann Christian’s 
father and her cousin, I think, Monroe—I’m losing his last name, but I’ll come back with it—
they sat on one side. One sat on the side of the church—the church was on the corner under a 
light—and one sat in the front of the church with a rifle across his lap, which I think kept us from 
any severe reactions. 
But my mother heard about this through our sorority. There were—I think there were 
three women at the church who were Deltas: myself, Joyce Ladner, and Joan Browning, who had 
been an exchange student. And so, the Deltas sent out this alarm. And the head of the Deltas at 
that time was from Albany, Georgia, Jeanne Noble. 
So, my mother, who was not speaking to me, [laughs] had thrown me out of the family, 
got worried. And so, she called an old high school friend of hers, Neil Staebler, who was a 
Democratic committeeman, and he put her in touch with someone in the Justice Department. 
And she worked her way up to—and she never told me this. Family members told me this story 
after she died. Evidently, they had been sworn to secrecy. [Laughter] So, the way they told it 
was, you know, she finally got to Burke Marshall. 
JD: Assistant attorney general. 
MN: Assistant attorney general at the time. [0:35:00] And he passed her off to Robert 
Kennedy. 
JD: [Laughing] Oh. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
20 
MN: And when she got to Robert Kennedy, Robert Kennedy assured her, you know. He 
said, “I’ll be sure that no harm, you know, comes to your daughter, Mrs. Prescod. You don’t 
have to worry about a thing.” And she said, “Well, I hope so, young man, because I would hate 
to have to talk to your brother about this.” [Laughter] 
JD: That’s marvelous! 
MN: And after that I couldn’t get arrested! 
JD: Yeah! 
MN: [Laughs] I could just go anywhere. 
JB: Can we pause again please? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JD: An important point in the larger scheme of things. 
JB: Okay, John, we’re back. 
JD: You have written that, although this was a nonviolent movement, that you engaged in 
what you called “preventive nonviolence.” Talk about that. 
MN: Well, I think my first exposure to this was in Albany, Georgia, where Sherrod 
would let the gangs know when there was going to be a demonstration. And they would position 
themselves between the white crowd and the nonviolent demonstrators. And, of course, in these 
communities everybody knew everybody. And so, the people in the white crowd knew that there 
was this group of non-nonviolent people [laughter] they had to go through to attack the 
demonstrators. And that kept the violence, I think, down. We didn’t hesitate to ride in cars with 
community people who were armed or to stay at the homes of community people who were 
armed. And I think, again, this protected us a great deal. I mean, Mr. Christian and his cousin 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
21 
sitting on that porch, I think, kept people from shooting into the church. It’s just an amazingly 
brave thing to do. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. So, you were protected by the local people? 
MN: Yes, very much so. 
JD: And then, soon you realized that Sherrod had pulled a trick on you to keep you in 
Albany and you were really expected in Greenwood, Mississippi. 
MN: [Laughs] Exactly. Yes, he told us that, because Medgar Evers had just been killed, it 
was too dangerous for us to go to Mississippi. But when we called over to Bob to— 
JD: Bob Moses. 
MN: Moses—to Bob Moses to—just to say hello, he was waiting for us. [Laughter] So, 
when Sherrod was out of town, because we were afraid he would talk us into staying— 
JD: We being—? 
MN: Jean Wheeler and myself. We were afraid he would talk us into staying. We got on 
a bus and went to Greenwood, Mississippi, where I spent the rest of the summer. 
JD: Well, Greenwood by that time had been in the national news. There had been 
demonstrations. The police had set dogs loose on people. The Justice Department had gotten 
involved in a way. So, taking that bus into Greenwood, what were your thoughts? And what did 
you find when you got there? 
MN: Well, again, I was scared. [Laughs] And when we got there, I think Sam Block and 
Willie Peacock picked us up. They had a car. It was like a bumblebee. It was yellow and black. 
And when they picked us up, they must have driven through Greenwood at eighty miles an hour. 
So, then I had another thing: Was I even going to make it to the office? [Laughter] You know? 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
22 
JD: And Block and Peacock were the original two SNCC people who went into 
Greenwood, and so you were being met by the people who started it all. 
MN: Yes, yes. And, you know, of course, they were heroes to us, and so forth. And that 
summer, we were working on getting people to the polls in groups, in large numbers—having 
Voting Days, having a Voting Day, rather than taking two or three people down at a time, and so 
forth. And so, my job was really to get familiar with the community and setting—I had learned 
this working with SDS and the Democratic Party—and, you know, setting up how, which homes 
had already been called on and which ones hadn’t, and so forth and so on. 
JD: So, there were still a lot of attempts made to register to vote? 
MN: Yes. We had a Voting Day at the end of the summer, is what I remember, with two 
or three hundred people. 
JD: How many of them were successful, do you think? 
MN: Oh, I don’t think anybody was successful. 
JD: That they were using all of the devices they could— 
MN: They just weren’t registering. 
JD: Such as interpreting the Constitution. 
MN: Now, I actually never went inside, so I don’t know what happened once people went 
inside. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
MN: But I know that nobody got registered. I mean, [0:40:00] for the most part, nobody 
got registered. But they were so brave to keep coming back and attempting to register. People 
drove—again, people were driving by. White men were driving by the office with their guns out, 
and so forth. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
23 
JD: Contrast—compare and contrast, will you, the—I’ve been interested in this—the way 
Sherrod was running the Albany Project, and the way things were being run in Greenwood. 
MN: Well, Mississippi was—Sherrod’s project—there were white volunteers in Albany. 
There were a couple of white volunteers in Mississippi, two men, but they never left the office. It 
was too dangerous. 
JD: Dangerous for them and for the community? 
MN: Yes. So, they actually lived, bathed, ate, everything, in that office. I would say that 
for me, and this is part of what attracted me to this Movement, they were both black projects, 
because the Movement itself was black. When I was in Albany, going to mass meetings, you 
know, there are seven hundred people in the church. Maybe there are ten white volunteers there. 
I’m not sure that’s integrated. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: You know, integrated to me is more of a 50/50 kind of a situation. The culture of the 
Movement was black. Sherrod was in charge. There wasn’t a situation where he was sharing 
with a white person to run the project. When he left, Prathia took over. So, for me, there wasn’t 
that much difference. Now, but again, this is what attracted me. What I saw in Chapel Hill were 
young black people in charge, taking charge of their destiny. That’s what attracted me. We could 
do something about our own situation. We could actually change things. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: So, in Mississippi, pretty much the same, as far as I felt it, as I experienced it. 
JD: So, you were happy to be in a black-run black project. 
MN: Yes. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
24 
JD: You were a woman in that Movement, and a lot has been written in recent years 
about the role of women in the Movement, the mistreatment, alleged mistreatment of women. 
What was your experience? 
MN: I certainly never felt mistreated. And I felt encouraged to be sort of as much as I 
could be. I didn’t feel—I felt myself a novice in these situations. I mean, I had never been in a—
what was, I guess, a war zone to me before. So, I was feeling my way and learning. But I felt 
encouraged to do as much as the men were doing, or just as much as I could do. We were college 
students, so certainly we were treated as if we were smart. I don’t, you know, I don’t—never felt 
that someone looked down on me through that experience. 
JD: Did women have roles they were expected to perform? 
MN: Not that I was aware of. 
JD: Taking minutes at meetings and things like this? 
MN: [Laughs] I don’t remember anybody taking minutes at meetings. 
JD: [Laughs] Somebody did, because I read a lot of them. 
MN: [Laughs] Somebody probably did. 
JD: But one of the things I noticed was, in reading the minutes— 
MN: I never did. 
JD: Of the meeting, you would not—you know, they would have the names of the people 
who were talking, but it they didn’t, you wouldn’t know which gender—you know, nobody was 
putting down somebody because of their gender. But that’s something, of course, has been out 
there. So, you were—in ’63, things are going in Mississippi, and then what did you do in the 
fall? 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
25 
MN: In the fall, we went to the March on Washington. And I went home to try to 
reconcile with my parents. 
JD: Talk a little bit about the March on Washington. Was that a great experience for you? 
MN: Actually, the March on Washington, after being in Mississippi, it seemed kind of 
too civilized or something, sort of toned down. 
JD: You were with the SNCC people who were there. [0:45:00] 
MN: From Mississippi, yeah. And I remember my identification was with the people 
coming in jeans from Danville and the people coming from Cambridge, Maryland, where they 
had had a hard-fought summer. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: They did have seats for us, for people from, coming from Mississippi. We got to sit 
at the front. 
JD: Oh? 
MN: Uh-huh. 
JD: Just like at the Democratic Convention, you were honored guests. 
MN: Right. [Laughs] So, that—you know, we picketed the Justice Department the night 
before, and then we came to the march. Of course, the numbers of people there were just so 
impressive. But I think the, you know, reaction to John’s proposed speech. 
JD: This is John Lewis, who had his speech censored. 
MN: Yes, the fact that his speech was censored. I remember being slightly conscious that 
there weren’t that many women speaking on the program. 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
26 
MN: And just at that point, I felt like a soldier in the civil rights army. The other thing 
that disturbed me: Du Bois died on that day. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And Wilkins, Roy Wilkins, who was head of the NAACP, made actually a 
disparaging remark. I don’t remember what it was. Or I felt he made a disparaging remark about 
Du Bois. And I thought it was just—how could you be so cheap? 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: Someone— 
JD: Still holding a grudge. 
MN: Yeah, yeah. And that’s my recollection of the march. 
JD: So, then you went back, you say, to try to reconcile with your parents. 
MN: With my parents. And I carefully went back after—I did some fundraising first in 
Massachusetts. And then, I went back to try to reconcile with my parents and I carefully went 
back after classes started at University of Michigan. But what my mother knew was that classes 
had not started at Wayne. 
JD: Oh! [Laughter] 
MN: And she faked a heart attack. 
JD: She faked it? 
MN: To keep me— 
JD: Oh. 
MN: At home. And years later— 
JD: Your mother is one of the most interesting people I’ve heard of. [Laughter] 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
27 
MN: Years later, I asked her, you know, how could she have done that. And she said, “I 
would have done anything to keep you out of Mississippi.” 
JD: Wow. 
MN: Anything. And when I was, you know, working on the bridges for Hands, and 
particularly reading your book, the level of violence in Mississippi in those years was incredible. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: It was absolutely incredible. I got chills all over again, thinking of how dangerous it 
actually was. 
JD: Yeah. But you were aware of that at the time, but it didn’t deter you at all? 
MN: I was aware—no, I wasn’t. [Laughs] I knew I was risking my life. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: I knew it was dangerous. I did not know that the Klan or the White Citizens Council 
had a list of people that they had successfully murdered. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: I knew people were dying. But I think I was not—I think I was neither aware of the 
level of violence nor, later, of the level of surveillance. 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: You know, we joked about it, but I didn’t think it was—yeah, the surveillance was 
that great. 
JD: Yeah. So, you were up north at Wayne State and then you— 
JB: John, can I ask a quick question? 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
28 
JB: You refer to John Lewis being censored, and I—this has come up several times. 
Could you just say why he was censored or what he was censored about? 
MN: I think they felt the speech was too radical. And, if I remember correctly, he had 
something in there about marching through the South like Sherman nonviolently. [Laughter] 
JD: That didn’t go over well. 
MN: Which didn’t—again, it’s this polite, this—the march is on a different level than the 
level on which we were working, I felt. 
JD: Yes. And one of the things, I think, was that the march was turned around to be an 
endorsement of Kennedy’s Civil Rights Bill. And in that first draft of the speech, he said it’s too 
little and too late. [0:50:00] 
MN: Um-hmm. 
JD: And that was a no-no. 
MN: Yeah. 
JD: Several people would have dropped out if he would have done it, so a compromise 
was made. It was still a strong speech, but they had distributed copies in advance, so the press 
knew exactly what had happened. 
MN: Yes. Well, I think he asked: “I want to know which side the federal government is 
on.” 
JD: Yeah, yeah. 
MN: And that was not acceptable at the time either. And I think it was more the 
traditional groups— 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: Not necessarily SCLC, but— 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
29 
JD: So, you’re up north in the summer in 1964. The summer of 1964 was the time of the 
summer project, later known as Freedom Summer in Mississippi, three civil rights workers being 
killed, national and international attention. Why didn’t you go back to Mississippi that summer? 
MN: Well, two reasons. I actually was opposed to the summer project. 
JD: A number of SNCC field secretaries were. Why were you opposed? 
MN: Many, I think! I think the whole Mississippi staff, almost! [Laughs] 
JD: Yeah, except Bob Moses. [Laughs] 
MN: That’s right. [Laughs] Because, again, I felt that the idea of having black student 
organizers in the black community in the South, I thought that was sound. It worked. And so, 
when I realized they weren’t recruiting black students, I was discouraged. 
And the second thing was I figured out if I went to summer school in 1964, I could finish 
school that following fall. And again, you know, that would just be checking off [laughs] one 
objective of my parents. 
JD: Yeah, placating your parents, um-hmm. 
MN: Yeah. 
JD: But you did go to Atlantic City in August when the Mississippi Freedom Democratic 
Party challenged the legitimacy of the all-white Mississippi delegation. What was that like? 
What was your role there? 
MN: I did go. And even previous to that, I did some work with Detroit Friends of SNCC, 
because the Michigan Democratic Party was the first party to support the MFDP. So, we were all 
proud of that. I was at that meeting where—you know, first we were just generally, you know, 
demonstrating on the boardwalk. And I went to the meeting where people came to talk to the 
Mississippi Democratic delegation to ask them to support, to encourage them to support the two 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
30 
seats, the offer of the two seats. And I remember Mrs. Hamer getting up when it was over. I 
remember two or three things. One was, I think a gentleman from the Council of Churches was 
so embarrassed by the position that he was taking that he— 
JD: Bob Spike, I think. 
MN: Was it Bob? 
JD: Um-hmm. 
MN: Uh-huh. He looked down. He was red in the face and looked down through the 
whole time that he was making his presentation. And then, you know, Mrs. Hamer got up and 
said, basically said, “I know what democracy is. First of all, we should get to choose who our 
representative are.” 
JD: Yeah. They had appointed—the Johnson Administration had appointed Ed King and 
Aaron Henry. 
MN: Yeah. And so, and the vote went with her. And I thought it was a wonderful victory! 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: I thought—and it’s not just about this specific event. I thought it was absolutely 
amazing that within the space of what was that—two years?—of activism, with basically no 
money, we had made the vote a national issue. It was on the national agenda. It wasn’t going 
anywhere after that. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And, to me, the whole Movement was like that. That given the opposition against 
us, given that there was, I felt, only this—there was just this small historical opening to make 
change. 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
31 
MN: I think we blew it wide open. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And so, [0:55:00] in that sense, I always felt encouraged. I felt as if we were—you 
know, there’s a point in Chicago where there’s a mass meeting, I think, after they’ve gone into 
Cicero, and the rocks are coming down and everything. And Mahalia Jackson sings before 
King’s speech, and she sings, “Joshua fit the battle of Jericho.” 
JD: Um-hmm, yeah. 
MN: “And the walls came tumbling down.” And I—that just, to me, was such the perfect 
image. I felt not that we were sort of marching around the walls of racial oppression or 
segregation with horns, but we were leaning on it, and it was tumbling down. And it did. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: [Laughs] Yeah. 
JD: Stop? 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: Okay, we’re rolling. John, can you back up just a little bit? 
JD: Okay, we’re going to go—so, you were attending the University of Michigan, and 
you made most of your credits for graduation at the end of the fall semester of 1964. And then, 
early in 1965, you joined the Alabama SNCC Project. Talk a little bit about that, what was going 
on, what you found there. 
MN: Well, at first when I went to the Alabama SNCC Project, I was going on the 
weekends, because during the week, I was—long weekends—I was also working on a project 
with Pat Gurin from the University of Michigan, studying the vocational aspirations of students 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
32 
at black colleges. And one of the colleges was Tuskegee, so in that process, we got to know a lot 
of the activist students. And another SNCC person, Doris Derby, was on that study. 
JD: Uh-huh. 
MN: And another historian, John Bracey— 
JD: Oh, wow. 
MN: Was also one of the interviewers. So, we got to know the students at Tuskegee, the 
activist students, and they were having mass meetings. And they actually tended to get together, 
oh, around eleven or twelve o’clock in the daytime [laughter] and, you know, kind of socialize 
the rest of the day. 
In Selma, when I worked in Selma, I worked in a ward of Selma. I was assigned a ward. 
And we did, in Selma, whatever the people coming to the meeting wanted us to do. It could be 
something as simple as getting a stoplight on a corner or as complicated as trying to get black 
women hired at the Dan River Mills, which, of course, paid more. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: I think the thing that struck me in Selma, and Mississippi was probably a little bit 
less. In Selma the going wage for day work was twelve dollars a week for a six-day week. 
JD: Wow. Uh. 
MN: So, we worked with Dan River Mills. 
JD: Did you have any success there? 
MN: I believe the women got hired. That’s my memory. I’m not sure of it. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: So, we were doing sort of economic projects. We also—I was working with people 
in another—we were working in another ward where the men working at the Pepsi plant wanted 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
33 
to unionize. And we worked with an organizer from the AFL-CIO, who came in at night. The 
meetings had to be at night. He had to park—nobody parked all in front of the house, you know. 
So, that was the trade union organizing. And we were still taking people, going with people to 
register to vote. Later on, we challenged the assignment of the poverty funds to the mayor, and 
so forth. 
JD: Okay. It was about this time early in 1965 that Martin Luther King and the Southern 
Christian Leadership Conference came to Selma with the intent of dramatizing something that 
the Civil Rights Act of ’64 didn’t cover, and that was the right to vote. They came to Selma to 
make a big splash, to put pressure on Congress to pass the law. SNCC had been working quietly 
in the community for a couple of years. Talk a little bit about that dynamic, when SCLC came, 
and how things changed or didn’t. 
MN: You know, I think, too, and maybe this is a little off the subject. My firm belief, and 
I don’t know if this, again, will be proven [1:00:00] when things are—all the records are open, 
and so forth. I suspect that after the MFDP challenge, and the kinds of people that the MFDP 
represented, somebody said, “You know, we can’t let this radical SNCC organization create a 
populist party in the South. And you guys in SCLC should do something about this.” 
JD: I do know that in the fall of ’64, there was a meeting held in New York with Al 
Lowenstein and lots of other liberals, the intent of which was to make sure that FDP did not get 
support. 
MN: And there was also a document from an SCLC meeting about kind of taking up the 
issue of the vote and being in the middle of SNCC projects in Mississippi and Georgia. 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
34 
MN: So, anyway, we were not—well, I remember, in particular, we weren’t like 
overboard about SCLC coming into Alabama, which had had a SNCC presence—I think 
LaFayette was there in 1961. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: Um-hmm. So, at the same time, it’s not like there was hostility. We all ate together 
[laughing] at the Walker Sig Café, you know, certainly talking with each other. I mean, it 
wasn’t— 
JD: Did you get to know King there at all? 
MN: Oh, I just met him a couple of times. I think Andy Young was there more, and we 
got to know him. 
JD: Yeah, King was going in and out. 
MN: He was in and out, but Andy was there a lot. At that point, Diane and Bevel were 
working for SCLC, so, you know, we were certainly friends with them. And so, it was kind of an 
interesting arrangement. And actually in the wards in Selma, there was a SNCC person assigned 
to each ward and an SCLC person assigned to each ward, as an attempt to kind of work together 
through this. But they tended to be promoting demonstrations, and, you know, we were 
community organizers. And so, we were doing more, actually, kind of local groundwork kind of 
things, I think. 
JD: The world became aware of Selma at Selma bridge when the police attacked 
demonstrators, tear gas, clubs. Talk about that and the impact that it had on SNCC and what it 
was doing at the time. 
MN: Well, even though at the time SNCC had taken an official position against 
supporting the March to Montgomery, and so, there were SNCC individuals like John Lewis, 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
35 
Bob Mants, participating in the march. After Bloody Sunday, you know, everybody came to 
Selma, and the SNCC staff in Selma that had not been participating in the march also 
participated in the next march, which we called the U-Turn March. 
JD: Why is it the U-Turn March? 
MN: Because, basically, you know, everybody was all revved up, and they were ready to 
go across that bridge and to go through anything. And when they got to the bridge, the 
leadership, the SCLC leadership, stopped, said, “Let us pray,” and led the march back to Browns 
Chapel. So, it was very disappointing. 
JD: They did that probably because a deal was made that they wouldn’t be attacked as 
long as they turned around and came back. After that, why, there was a federal permission to 
march, and so the march from Selma to Montgomery got underway and was completed. Were 
you on that march? 
MN: I didn’t actually go on the march. I’m just going to go back to the second. There’s a 
very interesting story in Hands on the Freedom Plow, written by Fay Bellamy, where she 
describes going with, I think, Foreman and Stokely to a dentist’s house [1:05:00] in Selma the 
night before this march, where Foreman and Stokely were pleading with King to go against his 
principles and break the federal injunction. But the thing that was interesting was, like, they 
knew where he was. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: They came in the middle of the night, [laughs] and he got up and met with them. 
But he was also on the phone in the other room with the federal authorities. 
JD: Yeah. King had a difficult role. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
36 
MN: Yes. [Laughs] I kind of feel sorry for him sometimes. But, um—so now, I’m 
forgetting your question. 
JD: Well, no, that you did not go on the march. 
MN: I did not go on the march, but I did go—well, there were two things. So, also at the 
same time—what SNCC did at the same time was have demonstrations in Montgomery. So, I did 
go and watch the demonstrations in Montgomery, because students from the University of 
Michigan came down. There was some kind of relationship between Tuskegee and the 
University of Michigan, an institutional relationship between the two schools. 
JD: So, you were in Montgomery then, with all of the violence there? 
MN: I was in Montgomery. I left when I knew things were going to get rough. Because, 
again, we had taken the position that we were no longer demonstrators. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: We were community organizers and we were going to focus on that community 
organization. Now, I did go into Montgomery on the day the march culminated. 
JD: Um-hmm. What were your feelings then? 
MN: It was sort of ho-hum. You know, we expected it to happen. We knew—and we 
were at the church. It’s right on the corner by the capitol, so we could hear the speeches. And we 
were feeding people, I remember. 
JD: That was King’s church, I think. Was that King’s church when he preached in 
Montgomery? I’m trying to think— 
MN: I believe so. And I want to call it Ebenezer, and that’s why I know I’m wrong. 
[Laughs] 
JD: No. No, that— 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
37 
MN: It’s the Montgomery bus boycott church. 
JD: I can remember Coretta saying marching past that church and all it symbolized for 
her. 
MN: And what I thought was beautiful was to see how many community people were 
participating in that march, you know, because the streets in Montgomery were full. There was a 
point where we couldn’t drive anymore, you know. We had to park the car and walk the rest of 
the way, and so forth. 
JD: And then, the march ended, and the press went away. And you went back to work, 
right? 
MN: Right. And I think that our concern was even in what was proposed in a voting 
rights bill didn’t offer any protection for people who were trying to register to vote and for 
workers, for voter workers. And so, you know, I remember kind of being like, [sighs] “Well, 
another bill. Won’t protect us. Won’t protect people,” etcetera. Yeah. 
JD: Um-hmm. Well, in a second, I want you to talk about what it was like registering 
people in that area, once the Voting Rights Act was passed. But it was at this time that Stokely 
Carmichael was going off from the march and organizing people in Lowndes County, Alabama, 
which became the Lowndes County Freedom Organization, the first Black Panther Party. You 
have changes going on in SNCC. And you were continuing to be active in Alabama, and not 
much has been written or said about that. I wish you could go into detail. I believe the Medical 
Committee for Human Rights— 
MN: Was there, yeah. 
JD: Had a project there. What were you doing after the march? 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
38 
MN: After the march, we were still canvassing. The thing that I remember was people 
were going down to register in droves. And I was making some attempt—we had these sheets of 
people who had gone to register, etcetera, and I was making some attempt, which I never did 
finish, of trying to organize them by wards, so that we would have the information of who was 
registered, who wasn’t. You know, now it became more of an administrative kind of thing, 
because people—they sent in federal registrars, so people weren’t having any difficulty getting 
registered. 
JD: Um-hmm. So, it was a matter of motivating them to get out and register? 
MN: Well, people were going in droves. We didn’t have to do anything. I mean, they 
were just going in droves. But the thing in Selma is we were thinking about, “Okay, now there’s 
going to be elections. Can we start organizing?” 
But [1:10:00] by that time, everybody was pretty much out in the counties. And, as you 
say, the focus was on Lowndes County and the idea of an independent black political party. And 
that’s where SNCC’s efforts went at that time. 
JD: Um-hmm. Did you work in Lowndes at all? 
MN: I visited Lowndes. I was there, I think, for the first mass meeting. And I thought it 
was interesting that people, you know, as soon as that meeting was over, the people in Lowndes 
County had a set arrangement about how they were getting home so no one would be in danger. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: [Laughs] It’s like, oh, we’ve done this before. 
JD: [Laughs] Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
39 
MN: You know? But I didn’t—and I spent—I think I spent a couple of weeks there. 
When I came back to Alabama—I went home for a little while and came back to Alabama, but it 
was not—Selma was my permanent place. 
I was at the meeting. We were at a Boy Scout camp, I think. We had a meeting where the 
whole discussion was about the formation of an independent black political party and the black 
panther. I, of course, wasn’t so hot on the panther. I wanted a black star, but that was [laughs]— 
JD: What was your problem? What was your problem with the panthers? [Laughs] 
MN: I mean, I don’t even remember—I don’t even remember if I had the nerve to say 
anything about it. But I actually believe in nonviolent direct action, and I thought the panther was 
a little over the top, you know. And I liked something that would have connected it to the 
African struggle, which I think a black star would have done. 
JB: Now, could you explain what the black star is? 
MN: Marcus Garvey had the Black Star— 
JD: Star Line, a steamship line. 
MN: Line, a steamship line, as a symbol. And then, Nkrumah picked it up, I think, for the 
airlines, for the Ghanaian airlines. So, you know, there was that—I mean, this is in the back of 
my mind, say, compared to a black panther. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: You know. 
JB: I just worked with some—in Jamaica with Rastafarians and, of course, Marcus 
Garvey and the Black Star are really big there. 
MN: Oh, yes, yes. My father always referred to him as the Honorable Marcus Garvey, 
you know. And I also think—I remember I did not have the same understanding about the 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
40 
importance of black institutions as some of my SNCC colleagues at that time. I thought it didn’t 
make a difference. If you had a Lowndes County freedom organization, and that organization 
wanted to field Independent candidates one year, Democratic candidates another year, I thought 
it was all fine. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: But that shows my separation from the thinking of the time. You know, I was not 
representative at all. 
JD: Um-hmm. When you were in Alabama in the ensuing months in 1965, what was—
you’ve had all the attention in Selma. What were race relations like in the period after the march 
until you left? Did things improve at all? Did they get worse? Did they stay the same? 
MN: Well, one of the interesting things was when we challenged the poverty funds, the 
mayor started meeting with us. 
JD: Mayor Smitherman. 
MN: Yes. He was very cordial and pleasant. And, of course— 
JD: Was there a CAP board, a Community Action Program board there that was in charge 
of all that? 
MN: All I remember was that the mayor was in charge of the poverty funds, and we held 
several mass meetings to have the community support to challenge it. But I left, actually, before 
that whole process was finished and I don’t know what happened. And I was actually working 
with a woman from SCLC, Shirley Mercer, I think her name was. 
JD: Okay. [1:15:00] 
MN: But I know that there was a quick response. It was just immediate. While we were 
there, even during the Movement, I think I—we were able to—they talked to us, the Selma 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
41 
officials. It was kind of funny, you know. The SNCC office was directly across the street from 
the police station, and we could actually see people in jail through our window. So, it was very 
physically close proximity. 
JD: Which is very different from the image we get of the police in Selma, because all we 
have is those pictures of pushing back and beating and that there wasn’t any communication at 
all. 
MN: It was the state troopers, which is kind of interesting, you know, because everybody 
thought the state was more liberal than Selma. But it’s the state troopers who are beating people 
on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. 
JD: Yeah, and you mentioned Wilson Baker, the director of public safety— 
MN: Yes. 
JD: As somebody you could talk to. 
MN: Well, I had his phone number. I don’t know how I got it. I had his phone number at 
home and in the office. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And I can’t even remember. Did he walk up to me one day and say, “Well, you 
know, if you ever need me, here’s my phone number.” [Laughter] I don’t know. But I did call 
him one night when we went to a restaurant on Halloween, which wasn’t smart. And, you know, 
it looked like people were going to try to hurt us. He sent a car. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: [Laughs] He sent a couple of police cars to take us home. 
JD: Wow. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
42 
JB: Worth told me stories about the police station being across from the office and all. 
Was that already set up before you got there? 
MN: Yeah. 
JB: He says he set that up, and so that when he went out in the field he could talk to 
people and say, “Well, you know where my office is,” and they’d all have to laugh. [Laughter] 
MN: Yeah, because I think he was there in that early group. 
JD: Um-hmm, yeah. 
MN: He came early, so that was, yeah, that was all set up before we got there. 
JD: When you were in Alabama this time, you also had an active social life. 
MN: Well, kind of. 
JD: [Laughs] I’m talking about meeting your husband. 
MN: Yes, I did meet my first husband there, yes. He was the project director. 
JD: Silas Norman. And you were married when? 
MN: We married in the fall of 1967, and he had orders to Vietnam. And he was on that 
break. They give you like, I think, a 30-day, or it might even have been a 60-day break before 
you actually transfer over. He had applied to be—for CO standing before he was drafted, and 
they didn’t give it to him. But he learned while he was in the Army—he kept going to different 
schools to avoid going to Vietnam. And then, he learned while he was in the Army that in that 
space, you’re no longer under the chain of command and you go straight to the top. And that’s 
what he did. And he was an officer, and as an officer, the burden of proof of your being a CO is 
now on the Army, not on you. It’s just the opposite if you’re an enlisted man. 
JD: Oh, I didn’t know that. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
43 
MN: Because, obviously, they don’t want a pacifist in charge of troops. And so, he was 
successful in that, in doing that. I had told him, you know, after he proposed, and I knew this was 
hanging over him, I said, you know, “Well, if you go to Canada, I’ll go with you. If you go to 
Africa, I’ll go with you. If you go to jail, I’ll wait for you.” [Laughter] 
He said my mother took him aside and said, “Young man, you are not taking my daughter 
anywhere where I have to cross an international boundary to see her, [laughter] and if you go to 
jail, I’ll be tempted to shoot you before you get out of the courtroom, because my daughter will 
not be married to a felon!” [Laughter] 
JD: Had you and your parents been reconciled by then? 
MN: We were—I was living at home. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: We weren’t reconciled. They—my—again, I believe my mother insisted that I be 
allowed back at home, against my father’s wishes. 
JD: Oh, I see. 
MN: And, you know, so there was still a lot of tension that really didn’t dissipate until 
shortly before my mother died. 
JD: And you entered a grad program at Wayne State in the summer of ’66? 
MN: I did. 
JD: And you and Silas [1:20:00] were married in ’67. You had—then had a baby, a small 
son, and you decided to go back to Albany. 
MN: We did. Sherrod, by that time, was doing farming. He had a huge community. I 
think it was the size of New York City or something. 
JD: Wow. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
44 
MN: It was this huge plot of land called New Communities. And we discussed, you 
know, going to work with him, and we went down there to visit. And he took us around, and he 
took us through the house, and here and there. The house was all shot up in the back. [Laughs] 
You know, it was just sort of a matter of fact, you know. And I thought we didn’t really have the 
right to risk the baby’s life. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And we both thought we should have more education. So, Silas went to medical 
school, and after we had two more children, I went back to school and entered a Ph.D. program 
in History. 
JD: In 1967—you were down, and then you went back—changes were taking place in 
SNCC. Talk about how you fit into the discussions, how you fit into the changes in direction in 
SNCC. 
MN: You know, unfortunately, I had a habit of going to SNCC meetings but not actually 
going to the meeting. I would stay outside the meeting and— 
JD: Why didn’t you go inside? 
MN: I liked to meet with people from other projects, find out what they were doing, and 
that kind of thing. I mean, I would go in and out. I— 
JD: There was a lot of tension in those meetings in those days. 
MN: I didn’t take it as seriously, probably, as I should have, because I thought that we 
had our marching orders, so to speak. We had Ms. Baker’s—we had a philosophy. And to me the 
discussions that were taking place were within that context and, I believe to this day, easily 
resolvable. But, again, I was someone who was there in the beginning, or close to the beginning, 
and saw SNCC as a black organization. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
45 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
MN: And I saw the Mississippi Summer Project as the aberration, and then, what 
happened afterwards as a return to where it started. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: So, it wasn’t—I wasn’t going, “Oh, this is something new!” [Laughs] I was going 
like, “Oh, this is something old,” and it’s actually something that Stokely says in the Black 
Power, you know, that it’s just—we were trying to build vehicles of black power from the 
beginning. 
JD: Yeah, yeah. So, when the “Black Power” slogan came out, you were not surprised 
or— 
MN: No. 
JD: Turned off, or— 
MN: No. I thought it’s what we were doing all along, was building vehicles of black 
power. [Laughter] 
And interestingly enough, one of my parents’ objections was to the integrated nature of 
the Friends of SNCC, because we actually had a party at my house in Detroit after Stokely gave 
a Black Power speech. And I swear my mother said to Stokely when he came in the house, “Oh! 
Young man, I’m so glad you all finally got some sense, and now what you need to do is 
organize, organize, organize!” [Laughter] Which, of course, was his slogan! [Laughter] She 
loved Black Power! 
JD: Oh, yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
46 
MN: So, no, it just seemed to me the same. But I think, of course, the people who had 
come in either in the summer of 1964 or afterwards saw the early SNCC as a, quote, 
“integrationist” organization, which—I didn’t understand that. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: And I didn’t feel that what we were trying to do was to integrate into white society. 
I never had that feeling, either. I thought what we were trying to do was build these vehicles of 
black power and to radicalize the entire political structure of the country, because what 
oppressed black people in the South would want and would lobby for would be so much more 
liberal and radical than any other group of people in the country. [1:25:00] 
JD: Yeah, um-hmm. 
MN: That was my understanding of what we were doing. And so, I didn’t see it as a big 
change. 
JD: Um-hmm. When did you—? 
JB: [I’m sorry. Hold on a second]  
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JB: We’re on. 
MN: The other thing that was so clear was that we were still talking about a movement 
based in the black community. There was a brief talk about—you know, there were these white 
projects in Mississippi, but there really wasn’t any discussion about building a black and white 
Southern movement together. I do think one of the opportunities that we missed because of these 
discussions in the meeting was bringing the Southern movements together, you know, creating at 
least a meeting of the Southwest Georgia, the Mississippi, the Cambridge Movement, bringing 
these projects together and developing a platform. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
47 
JD: By this time, there was more activity in cities, in the North. And you and your 
husband and your family were in Detroit. 
MN: Yes. 
JD: And you went back to graduate school in history at the University of Michigan. 
MN: Yes. 
JD: Briefly tell us what you’ve been up to the last 45 years. [Laughter] 
MN: I think a combination of studying history, teaching history. I didn’t finish my, the 
Ph.D. program, because of a series of family emergencies. I raised a family. I took care of my 
parents. And I’ve done a number of community projects, like an anti-hunger project, a program 
for children, a tutorial program for children with sickle cell anemia. And I stayed active with a 
number of what I would call post-SNCC projects, helping to organize some retrospective 
conferences about SNCC, helping to get Curtis Hayes out of jail in Liberia. 
JD: Yeah. 
MN: Things like that, yeah. 
JD: And tell us about your family. 
MN: Well, I have three wonderful sons, who we raised in the city of Detroit, in the inner 
city of Detroit. And so, they and we have experienced I guess what I would call a new set of 
dangers, in terms of attacks and arrests by police, and the level of violence that’s now, I think, 
within the black community. My son was a pallbearer two weeks after he graduated from high 
school. And within my little circle of friends in Detroit, at least four women have lost their sons 
to gun violence. It’s—it became pro forma. 
JD: Yeah. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
48 
MN: You know, if your son came home late, you called the morgue to make sure they 
weren’t there. And they were regularly harassed by the police. 
JD: Um-hmm. And what are they doing now? 
MN: Well, one son actually is a lawyer. [Laughter] And he says, unlike many other 
lawyers, he believes his clients [laughter] when they say certain things happened. That’s my 
youngest, our youngest son, and the other two are physicians. One is a nephrologist with a 
subspecialty in kidney transplant medication. And the other has his M.D., he’s a hospitalist, but 
he also has a Ph.D. in information, computers, and he’s questioning the entire logic of 
mathematics. [Laughter] 
JD: Oh! Your mother would be very proud! 
MN: Right! Right, somebody became professional, right! 
JD: At the beginning of the twenty-first century, and even before, you were involved in a 
project [1:30:00] as one of the instigators to gather the remembrances and the essays written by 
SNCC women. The result was a marvelous book published in 20— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JD: Okay. 
JB: Okay, it’s going now. I’ll keep my eye on it. 
JD: Okay. In the early part of the twenty-first century, why, you were involved with a 
group of women from SNCC to gather information, essays by a large number of women in 
SNCC, who would tell their stories about their experiences in the Movement. The result was a 
magnificent book published in 2010 by the University of Illinois Press called Hands on the 
Freedom Plow: Personal Account by Women in SNCC. Show us that book and tell us something 
about it. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
49 
MN: The book is Hands on the Freedom Plow, and it contains the stories of fifty-two 
women who— 
[Recording stops and then resumes] 
JD: Going again with the introduction? 
JB: Well, no—well, better give it just in case we didn’t close the file properly. Okay. 
JD: Start where? 
JB: You can start with the introduction. 
JD: Okay. Alright. Early in the twenty-first century, you and a group of other women in 
SNCC began to compile a group of essays written by SNCC women talking about their 
experiences in the Movement. The result was a wonderful collection called Hands on the 
Freedom Plow: Personal Accounts by Women in SNCC published in 2010 by the University of 
Illinois Press. Show it to us and tell us something about it. 
MN: Well, Hands on the Freedom Plow, and it’s the stories of fifty-two women who 
were active in the Civil Rights Movement in projects connected with SNCC. It has the stories 
of—most of the women were college students at the time, but we also have included women who 
were middle-aged activists, white women, black women, there are two Hispanic women in the 
book. 
JD: And for those of you watching this now into the future, it is also available in 
paperback edition. 
MN: Yes. 
JD: And we recommend it highly. Martha Noonan, thank you very much for being with 
us. This has been a real pleasure for us. 
MN: Thank you. 
Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, March 18, 2013 
50 
JD: It’s a wrap. 
JB: Thanks. 
JD: Uh! Sorry we had to do several takes. 
MN: Oh, I think that’s— 
 
[Recording ends at 1:32:37] 
END OF INTERVIEW 
Transcribed by Sally C. Council