Interview Transcription, Community Health Workers in Downstate New York 
Interviewee, Ashley Hall 
Interviewer, Aaron Paige  
Conducted on May 6, 2022 
Interview conducted at Sun River Health Inwood Health Center, Bronx, NY. 
 
Aaron Paige (00:00:00): 
Today is Friday, May 6th, 2022. My name is Aaron Paige. The spelling is A A R O N P A I G E. And today I 
will be interviewing Ashley Hall as part of the Archie Green Fellowship Project, titled "Community Health 
Workers in Downstate New York". Ashley, would you please state and spell your full name? 
Ashley Hall (00:00:25): 
Yes. My name is Ashley Hall. That's A S H L E Y H A L L. 
Aaron Paige (00:00:33): 
Ashley, where were you born and where did you grow up? 
Ashley Hall (00:00:37): 
I was born in Augusta, Georgia, and I was raised in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Aaron Paige (00:00:41): 
When did you move to New York or when was that transition from Georgia to New York? 
Ashley Hall (00:00:46): 
I transitioned from Georgia to New York, January, 2015. It was more a time to leave the nest and kind of 
move to a bigger city, new life, a fresh start. So that's why I moved to New York. 
Aaron Paige (00:01:13): 
What specifically drew you to New York, versus other places that you might have traveled to or gone to? 
Ashley Hall (00:01:22): 
A few factors that drew me to New York was, number one, the benefits in New York was way better. I've 
been to Los Angeles and I've been to Seattle. I didn't want to go back to the west coast. And then, family 
is the reason, it's more family related is the reason why I moved to New York. At one point you been 
around family too much. Coming from the south, it's like, where do you have to move on? A friend of 
mine referred me to New York, about the benefits, and that was a piece that said "okay, let me just do 
my homework." And after doing my homework, I decided to move to New York. But then I think the 
benefits was the reason why, the benefits and being able to get that support and all the services in New 
York state, was the reason why I moved to New York City. 
Aaron Paige (00:02:26): 
Did you move to New York with this current job that you hold in place? Was that something that you 
had at the time? 
Ashley Hall (00:02:32): 
No, I did not. I was unemployed when I left Georgia. I was unemployed when I came to New York. When 
I got here, I was basically trying to get things moving, get some services started. I started here, as a client 
of the adult day health care program, here at formerly Brightpoint Health, now Sun River. And because 
the work that I did and the care plan that I had set up was successful, I graduated from the program and 
I became employed here as a part-time peer educator. 
Aaron Paige (00:03:14): 
What was the timeline there? So when did you start that program? And then when did you become an 
employee? 
Ashley Hall (00:03:22): 
I started the program August of 2015. I went as far as July, 2017. And then from July 2017 to current day 
is where I became a staff, came on board. Meeting with the case managers here on site, one-on-one, 
they helped me with my goals. They helped guide me, navigate me through the proper channels to, 
reached out to that outside support, and come here as a staff. One of the staff members of the work 
that I did up front as a administrative peer and I was referred to come work as a peer on board. 
Aaron Paige (00:04:12): 
Why did you want to become a peer? I mean, what drew you to that position? 
Ashley Hall (00:04:19): 
I've did volunteer work in Georgia before as a peer. I did HIV testing before. I did peer escort before. I 
drove people to medical appointments in Georgia before. So that was something that I wanted to do in 
New York. So, when coming here, the program and the job required me basically to do similar things, 
minus the driving. I figured that was the opportunity to continue what I was doing in Georgia on a 
volunteer basis to do something in New York on a paid basis. I'm always about engaging and helping the 
clients, as a peer, they need that peer to peer support. And based on my knowledge after being in New 
York for a few months, a few years, I'm able to share what I know and give back. 
Aaron Paige (00:05:19): 
Would you share a little bit about how you got into doing that kind of volunteerism in Georgia? 
Ashley Hall (00:05:28): 
We had this support group in Atlanta, where we have weekly groups on Wednesdays and Thursdays. 
One lady came and she said that you know, you can do HIV testing and you can do navigation support. I 
decided, I want to do it. I wanted to volunteer to do it. I had nothing to do in Georgia. I decided to do 
something within my time. So by me doing that volunteer work, a lot of people saw that. A lot of people 
saw that I was doing that work. But like I said, when dealing with, on the flip side, the other stuff's going 
on, I kind of had to balance things out. So I had to stop what I was doing in terms of the volunteer work 
just to deal with this over here. But then when this got worse, that was my transition to just leave 
Georgia. And then I could just continue in New York. But of course, when I got to New York, being able 
to find housing, the benefits took to process. But after that process was done, I was able to reengage or 
continue the process I was doing on a volunteer basis. 
Aaron Paige (00:07:00): 
Did you have anybody in New York to help you navigate all those systems when you moved to New 
York? 
Ashley Hall (00:07:07): 
I had one to show me HRA, or HASA, in this case, but after that I did my own work. I went online. I went 
to libraries. I went online. I did my research on housing. I went to get my benefit. I did everything online. 
I learned how to ride the subway. I learned other CBOs in New York City. So I got myself acquainted to 
what was in the city, what was accessible for me, GMHC, I got hold of everything. But when it came to 
coming here to Brightpoint, first all, I was a client of another program that was closed by the state. 
When we got closed, they referred us to Brightpoint Health, which is now Sun River. I figured when I was 
here, the staff was very nice and they were so engaged and they gave me an opportunity to volunteer, 
not to do what I was doing in Atlanta, but at least be able to see the client walk in the door. I'm able to 
assist the client. I'm able to redirect the client to other places they need to go to and be able to say 
'thank you for coming' and whatnot. I was really happy and really excited to do that work. And I think 
that's the reason why senior leadership saw interest in me to be able to work as a Peer here at Sun 
River. 
Aaron Paige (00:08:43): 
So what is a Peer? What does a Peer do? What's the nature of your work? 
Ashley Hall (00:08:49): 
Well, the nature of my work as a Peer is, because I live with HIV, so I get to share that lived experience 
with other people in the community. I get to teach people how to take medications. I get to teach 
people how the importance of adherence in my role. I get to meet the client at the front door. I get to 
navigate them through the process. I take the client and say 'thank you for coming in.' I get to do a lot of 
amazing stuff as a peer. And clients are happy. Clients are happy to see that they got somebody who 
lives in the same shoes they're walking in, to do good work for them. So that's my definition of a Peer. I 
was about to say something, but I just, I got... 
Aaron Paige (00:09:46): 
Take your time. That's totally fine. 
Ashley Hall (00:09:50): 
And then, I will show you this. This was the reason why I lost all that. That was a lot of... They said, "oh, 
you can do it. You on the billboard. You around the city." 
Aaron Paige (00:10:08): 
Oh, wow. So this was also put up as a billboard. 
Ashley Hall (00:10:11): 
Yes. 
Aaron Paige (00:10:11): 
I'm just going to read it. It says, "Hey HIV..." Why don't you read it, Ashley? 
Ashley Hall (00:10:18): 
So the billboard says "Hey HIV, understand this, we're living together, but I give the orders." That was 
my phrase that I provided back in 2014. I think it happened in 2014. Prior to my diagnosis, I was in the 
United States Navy. I got diagnosed while I was in service. At the time of my discharge, I didn't reenlist. I 
decided to discharge there and continue my medical services outside of military life. So when they 
looked for people that could do this type of work, looking for somebody who's in the service, I decided 
to volunteer to do it and understand that HIV may be present, but doesn't win. I give the orders of how I 
want to run my life. You don't control that. And by me taking my medications, by teaching them how to 
take medications, we win. We win. You know, it doesn't win. 
Aaron Paige (00:11:29): 
That's extremely powerful. How did it feel, seeing your image in different places around the city? 
Ashley Hall (00:11:40): 
Honestly, when I first saw it at first, I be like, 'oh my God.' I must say that at first I was kind of nervous 
about disclosure. So by me doing this poster with the CDC, it kind of helps with my disclosure. Because I 
get to get things and I get to share this out to my peers or share this out with the community. And it has 
my disclosure that I was living with HIV. So it kind of eased my nervousness away. But I must admit, the 
first time I seen it on a billboard, which was in Washington DC, I was like, 'oh my God. What if family see 
that? What are they going to say?' I've had no word that somebody told me that they saw it. So, I don't 
know. 
Aaron Paige (00:12:44): 
In a negative sense, but what about in a positive sense? Did you have people reaching out to you being 
like, 'oh my gosh, I saw your...' 
Ashley Hall (00:12:52): 
I had one or two. I go attend conferences and I attend conferences more in the South, more than up 
here. And when they see me on flyers, they're happy to see me, like, 'oh, can I get your autograph?' Like 
we are doing now, they get to ask questions about the kind of work that I do here in New York. To see 
the work I'm doing, they're very happy. They're happy to see that I'm not doing nothing. It's almost like 
I'm getting paid to volunteer. 
Aaron Paige (00:13:26): 
Isn't that a good feeling? Isn't that a great feeling? 
Ashley Hall (00:13:29): 
It is a great feeling. 
Aaron Paige (00:13:29): 
You're doing the work that you love. You'd probably be doing it anyway. And yet someone's valuing it in 
that way that you can get paid for it. 
Ashley Hall (00:13:37): 
Correct. I've volunteered and been in offices, but I never had a space like. I felt so amazing. I just, you 
don't know. You don't know. It's good. It's good. Oh my God. I kind of wanna make this my life, working 
as a Peer, but I know sometimes, I have to transition, but I don't want to transition yet. I just want to do 
what I can do as a Peer and continue doing it. Because it's all about results. It's all about results. A client 
can come to me and say, 'I forgot to take my medication.' I get to teach them the importance of 
adherence to HIV meds. A client says, 'can you tell me how to get to this location?' I'm able to navigate 
them to how to get there. It's all about the outcomes, as a peer. Even back home, I did that. How do you 
get to this place? Or can you read this? Can you tell me how to do this medication? I get to do that. 
That's so powerful. I get to improve somebody's viral load. I can't explain it. I can't explain it. It is so 
good. There is no explanation. How about that? It's none. 
Aaron Paige (00:15:20): 
No words for that. Those are two challenges that clients bring to you. What are some of the other 
challenges that the clients that come to you face and that you help them with? 
Ashley Hall (00:15:37): 
Because I work at an FQHC facility and we have a clinic on-site, upstairs, sometimes clients come and 
say, 'listen, I'm running late' or 'I've been here x amount of hours. Can you help me navigate through the 
process?' So me as a peer, I support that client by going upstairs and follow up with the clinical team. 
'Listen, I have one of my patients here, been here for a long time, what's the status.' And nine times out 
of ten, they push the process to get the client seen a little faster by the provider. And then I could be 
able to see them, or they could be able to leave if they are done for the day. So that's the only challenge 
I've seen presently. I had clients being here greater than three hours and and he was disappointed. 
Ashley Hall (00:16:33): 
He came to me say, 'I just wanna go home.' And I respect that because you've been here greater than 
three hours. But then I mention it to leadership. 'Listen, we cannot have this. We can't have this client 
being here for greater than a certain amount of time. That's not what we do as a facility. It's not good 
practice, you know?' So I take care of them. I take the challenges very seriously when patients present it 
to me. But if I can't deal with them, I normally take that to senior leadership as well. 
Aaron Paige (00:17:08): 
Do you find yourself helping patients and clients, not only with their health, like their treatment, but 
also with other dimensions of their life, like housing or food, other kinds of insecurities that they might 
face that are impacting their health? 
Ashley Hall (00:17:33): 
Oh, sure. So in my role as a peer, in the job that I do, because I told you before, when I came to New 
York, I kind of did my homework in advance. I do have clients that have housing concerns and food 
concerns and when we do our assessments and our social determinants of health assessments, we 
assess the needs of that patient. And if the patient said, 'oh, I have no food in the house.' Well, we will 
get them referrals to food pantries in the local area. We don't send them across town, to different 
boroughs. We just give them a pantry that's within walking distance of their house. Most of our patients 
are in transitional housing. 
Ashley Hall (00:18:21): 
So we get their case worker involved, because they mostly do the social piece of it. And we work 
together. Also, we work together with Health Homes. We work together trying to come to a good 
resolution for the client. Once we get the case manager involved, they normally take it from there and 
move on. So the success rate kind of be like, okay, the problem got solved. So housing is a big piece. The 
only challenge I see, in my time being here, is legal. Legal is a challenge that I have personally not been 
successful. It is very challenging the. Just the wait time. Now we do COVID, so definite wait time. Being 
able to work with law enforcement, that's pretty much the challenge. Legal is kind of a tricky process. 
And to be honest with you, that's something that I need help with, as a Peer. So I work on course with 
the senior leadership in trying to see in what ways can we improve on legal services with the clients. 
Aaron Paige (00:19:50): 
What is the need there? Where do you see the system failing in terms of that relationship between the 
health system and legal, in your position? 
Ashley Hall (00:20:00): 
For example, we might have patients that come from different countries, so then of course you need the 
political asylum. The paperwork might be...The identity of the patient. Trying to get the birth certificate 
of the patient. The documents could be like, 'okay, where do we go?' 'What and how do we do this?' 
That is the piece that I need help with. My supervisor is Hispanic and she knows a lot of stuff. I need to 
get that piece from her so I can kind of put it in the book and take it from there, because I need to know. 
Aaron Paige (00:20:41): 
Right. 
Ashley Hall (00:20:42): 
Then we have clients that say, 'oh, I need stuff from the NYPD like a incident report done by the NYPD.' 
Sometimes, going to the NYPD, if you ain't got your ducks in a row, they would turn you around. So... 
Aaron Paige (00:21:02): 
Like thick bureaucracy. 
Ashley Hall (00:21:04): 
I went to the NYPD for a client recently, and we got to the door. It was like, I'd say, my hands were up. 
But we got redirected to another center and it even got worse. So we weren't able to do anything during 
that time. So to answer your question, I don't know. But I really think that we need some type of 
support in legal. Other than that, I think that's it for my role in legal. Anything beyond that, the clients 
can self-handle themselves on that. 
Aaron Paige (00:21:53): 
It's interesting because Sun River Health, they do have some programs like ----- 
Ashley Hall (00:21:58): 
Oh, sorry. Oh, we had a case. We have cases before COVID that we have to navigate clients to housing 
court for purposes of them falling behind rent. Now, COVID came and there was an eviction 
moratorium. Now that has elapsed. We may have clients that say, 'listen, I'm behind in my rent. I don't 
wanna go to court. How can we do this?' So before we get the legal, we navigate the social piece of it 
and see where we can refer them to do that rent ------ before legal steps in. Because once legal steps in, 
then we have to...Me as a peer, I normally request to support the client by taking him or her to the 
courthouse, to meet in front of the judge. And then we just take it from there. As long as we got proper 
documentation in place, I normally reach out to the client's landlord and the client's case worker, and 
make sure the paperwork is in place. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:05): 
So this is like, well beyond just 
Ashley Hall (00:23:07): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:07): 
dealing with treatment. You're accompanying them to the courthouse. 
Ashley Hall (00:23:12): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:12): 
You're actually moving with them from place to place and providing that kind of support. 
Ashley Hall (00:23:17): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:18): 
And you were doing that kind of work in Georgia as well. You said you were working as an escort in that 
sense. 
Ashley Hall (00:23:25): 
Yes. The escort piece in Georgia was different than the escort piece in New York. The escort piece in 
Georgia was people who were coming out of prison. 
Aaron Paige (00:23:35): 
Ah, okay. 
Ashley Hall (00:23:37): 
So we get a client who come's out of prison and we've got to link that person to care, once they leave 
out of prison. And then we'll navigate them. Escort them to their appointments. Because, sometimes 
being down South, having a record, you can't get that much support in transportation. So we normally 
do the transportation to and from their appointments. 
Aaron Paige (00:24:01): 
Did you start that peer relationship in Georgia in the prison system itself? I mean, did you visit the 
prisons and build that relationship beforehand? 
Ashley Hall (00:24:09): 
No, I did not. 
Aaron Paige (00:24:10): 
Just as soon as they would come out. 
Ashley Hall (00:24:11): 
As soon as they would come out. They would notify the office and then they would notify our team and 
then we would go pick them up. I was a team of four. I was the only one that had a driver's license at the 
time. So I was able to volunteer. That's how I got a stipend for doing it. And that opened up other things 
in terms of linkage to care, adherence, volunteer testing. A lot of stuff opened up once I did that piece in 
Georgia. 
Aaron Paige (00:24:43): 
How long would those relationships last with those clients? Was it on ongoing? 
Ashley Hall (00:24:50): 
Once we get the ball rolling, for at least a year. We kind of say, 'are you able to move on on your own? 
And then we are just here to guide you and support as needed.' So normally one year after the first visit. 
Aaron Paige (00:25:05): 
Okay. 
Ashley Hall (00:25:06): 
After the first visit, we can work with them up to one year, but after one year you say, 'listen, your one 
year is up. We want you to do things on your own, but we are here if you need us.' 
Aaron Paige (00:25:20): 
Sometimes it helps to share stories, specific stories of individuals or an individual that you worked with. 
Not by name of course, but, would you be open to talking a little bit about an individual who, say, came 
out of that system, who you helped navigate, and what that relationship was like? 
Ashley Hall (00:25:44): 
Back in Georgia? 
Aaron Paige (00:25:45): 
Yeah. 
Ashley Hall (00:25:46): 
Oh. 
Aaron Paige (00:25:47): 
Sorry. I guess that is some time ago. 
Ashley Hall (00:25:50): 
Yeah. Because I've been in New York for seven years, so... 
Aaron Paige (00:25:52): 
And then the follow up to that would be, thinking about some individuals that you're helping here and 
the kinds of relationships that you have with them. 
Ashley Hall (00:26:01): 
We had a who came from downstate, Georgia. Came to metro Atlanta. Was referred by the correctional 
system down in south Georgia. Patient was already HIV positive in prison. Borderline AIDS. Because I 
work with a support group, the Ryan Wright Planning Council, I was able to connect to the county health 
department to link him to that department. He would have every month appointments with the 
provider. I would go pick him up every month for the medical provider. Transportation was covered by 
us, for one year. We were able to get him some food. He was staying in a shelter at the time because we 
had no availability, and because he has a record he can't get a place. 
New Speaker (00:27:04): 
But after that one year, after showing that he was engaged with us, we were able to write up a letter 
saying that this patient was in our care, he met his appointments, he did what he had to do. We got him 
supportive housing where they have to share a unit with someone. One apartment, two bedrooms and 
he became stable ever since. The goal to get them stable, is at least by one year. The viral load was 
undetectable. CD4 was over 500. To this day we still talk. I still follow up. I still follow up with this 
patient. Even though I'm in New York and he is in Georgia, you know, he say's, 'how you doing Ashley? 
I'm alright.' I come down there, shake his hand. Stay in contact. Even give him sources. If I know 
anything I could get him down there while I'm here, then I just provide him the source, like a referral, 
how to get to this place or how to navigate them to this place, remotely, from one state to another. 
Aaron Paige (00:28:22): 
That's incredible. How often is that the case that you end up staying in touch with... 
Ashley Hall (00:28:28): 
It's not often. It's not often. But I get a few. I get a few. But this one particular one, because I helped him 
out so much, in terms of navigating and linking him to services and being able to get him that support he 
needed, we stay in contact. 
Aaron Paige (00:28:48): 
Do sometimes the relationships become personal as a peer to your clients? Obviously, they always start 
professional, but sometimes over the time you get to know somebody does that ever happen that you 
develop a personal relationship? 
Ashley Hall (00:29:05): 
I try not to be personal at times because for me I had to set some boundaries. But if I'm in a level of 
where I'm on the same level as you, but I'm just volunteering, kind of doing things on a professional 
level, I might cross the line slightly and then just come back in. I came here and I started as a client. So I 
know a lot of people on a personal level before I came on on a professional level. They know that I have 
boundaries, that I have to maintain. I have standards I have to maintain. And we keep that boundary 
right here. So, I try not to be personal, but if I was already personal from the start, I minimize that 
personal time and stick with what I know on a professional level. 
Aaron Paige (00:30:07): 
And it's interesting that your experience is on both sides. 
Ashley Hall (00:30:12): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:30:12): 
When you were a client, was there a Peer through this system that was working with you, that was 
helping you navigate? 
Ashley Hall (00:30:20): 
No, there was not. When I became a volunteer here, I was basically on my own. I was working with the 
staff here. 
Aaron Paige (00:30:30): 
So they didn't have the program yet? 
Ashley Hall (00:30:33): 
This is a grant funded program. I was a volunteer for the adult day program. So it's two different 
programs. We had a stipend program where three times in the week we assist in the front, do activities 
within the ADHC program. And it was a stipend for $25 a day, for five hours a day. My job was basically 
administrative because I do well on computers. They had me do stuff, but I'd meed with the client at the 
front door. I'm the first one and the last one they see everyday. But I didn't need any help in the 
process. But if I needed help from a client, they would give me some advice. That's old school, but they 
all left here. They all transitioned. I think I'm the only one in this cycle, in this group, that's still here. But 
I'm working as staff now. Everybody else has transitioned to self care and they moved on. 
Aaron Paige (00:31:46): 
I know you work in the office, but your work also takes you outside of the office. Can you talk about 
your work in the community, in the field? What does that involve? What does that look like? 
Ashley Hall (00:31:59): 
Well, in our program, we have patients that borderline closing because they have no contact, they have 
no phones, they are lost to follow up. I don't say lost to care, I say lost to follow up. We will meet with 
the coordinator and she'll tell me, let's do a home visit for this patient to see where we could find the 
patients at. So, I normally go to the patient's home with my laptop and the work phone. If the patient is 
there, I'd normally do a Microsoft team zoom meeting with the coordinator, to keep that engagement, 
to have that engagement keep going on, so we won't lose the patient. If the patient is not home, I just 
document the outcome that the patient is not there. If the patient has to go to another appointment 
outside, or a patient has to go do other things out there within the scope of the job, I normally escort 
them, let them take care of their business and then navigate them back home. 
Ashley Hall (00:33:03): 
Or navigate them back here if they need to come back here. But the likely, once they are done with their 
business outside, they normally go home from there. Medically, I have patients that say I need a 
referral, an escort for a colonoscopy or some type of medical procedure, need a peer escort. So I 
normally take them to the hospital and wait there while the procedure is being done. And then once 
they're done, I'm able to sign off for them based on their thing in the hospital. And then I take them 
home. I take them directly home. If you've got medications in there, of course you can't go home alone. 
I'll walk you to the front door. Once I get to the front door, I return back to the office. 
Aaron Paige (00:33:53): 
Okay. During COVID, did those activities change at all, in terms of going out and meeting with people in 
their homes or escorting them? 
Ashley Hall (00:34:01): 
It did. During COVID, at the start of COVID, we were not in office, we were basically remote. Because the 
hospital and other things had changed, we had to put things on hold. If they had something they had to 
do outside of there, then it's very hard for us to do it because it's their guidance and their rules. All we 
could do as staff and as a Peer is to follow the rules. If a patient had a procedure done and then COVID 
happens and the procedure has to be moved, then that's something that's beyond our control. If a 
patient had to come here for a medical visit, at the time of COVID, they couldn't do it because they were 
doing tele-health services at the height of COVID. Now, when COVID got relaxed, then things picked up. 
Ashley Hall (00:34:58): 
Then we were able to say, I could go navigate on a Wednesday when I'm working remotely and just 
support the client in the field. We had one case where this patient had been lost for 90 days. And I did 
make one home visit at the height of COVID. But the client was not there. I did two home visits within 
that month. After that second one, by the end of that month, that patient's case was closed. We were 
unable to reach that client. But I did make the home visit, during the height of COVID. 
Aaron Paige (00:35:42): 
How does that feel when that happens, when you lose someone in that way? 
Ashley Hall (00:35:48): 
It doesn't feel well. But, at times, if I did what I can do as a Peer, and I did it to my satisfaction, I feel 
okay. Why? If the client is not here, in my mind, I know the client is getting some services somewhere. 
And if he is ready to come back home, he knows how to come home. Home means here. So, I'm okay. 
Aaron Paige (00:36:24): 
COVID must have been very challenging. 
Ashley Hall (00:36:29): 
COVID just messed a lot of stuff up. COVID messed a lot of stuff up. People didn't want to leave. The 
phones weren't working. There were a lot of challenges. The phone was basically the main challenge. 
We can't reach, now we have to call patients. The provider had to call patients. They haven't reached 
the patient. 
Aaron Paige (00:36:52): 
And regular treatment is so critically important. 
Ashley Hall (00:36:55): 
Correct. Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:36:56): 
Did you see a lot of cases where COVID was disrupting that and you needed to sort of get involved to 
make sure that people stayed on track in that way? 
Ashley Hall (00:37:03): 
In my scope, I haven't. For me, I haven't seen that. But I did have one case that the provider was looking 
for the patient because the patient was part of our program. I was able to get everybody involved. I 
made the home visit that day and the provider saw the patient on the video. After that one visit, the 
patient was lost to care. But then recently, I found out that patient had gone somewhere else. So, I was 
very happy. And he normally calls me after hours, which is not good, not practical and not ethical. I try 
not to pick up my phone after hours. It's not standard practice for a Peer. But at times I did, before I got 
caught. He said, 'Ashley, I'm okay. Just checking in.' Okay, that's all I want to hear. But moving forward, I 
was told not to pick up the phones after 4PM. 
Aaron Paige (00:38:14): 
How many clients do you have under you at any one time? 
Ashley Hall (00:38:21): 
That's a hard question. Not really a hard question because I share it. We have a Program Manager, a 
Coordinator, and two Peers. Between the four of us, we've got 37 clients. Approximately 37 clients. So 
between me and the peer, we work together with the 37 clients. As two peers, we work and provide 
updates to the coordinator. So, me personally, I don't have a caseload. We just have a shared caseload. 
Aaron Paige (00:38:54): 
Okay. So you work collaboratively with the other Peer and you might both be working with the same 
individual. You don't split up, like if it's 37, you don't take 18 and the other takes 18 or something. 
Ashley Hall (00:39:09): 
No. For example, this week alone, if I was supposed to reach out this patient to do an assessment and 
the patient said, 'listen, I'm unable to do it, can I do it on Thursday?' Because I don't work on Thursday. 
The other peer works on Thursday, I'll provide her the update and say 'listen, this patient wants to do an 
assessment on Thursday. Can you do it?' So it's kind of like we work intertwined. We'll work together on 
a plan on how we can reach out to the patients. If it's a project that requires us to do the whole 
caseload, then we'll split it up. She might do the first, A to L, I might do M to Z, or vice versa. 
Aaron Paige (00:39:56): 
What percentage of your time do you spend outside of the office versus in an office setting? 
Ashley Hall (00:40:09): 
I'm in the office twice a week, Mondays and Tuesdays from eight to four. I'm remote on Wednesdays 
only. If I have to do field visits...now it is rarely because most of our patients are engaged, so I don't have 
to do more engagement outside on Wednesday's that much. So I would say less. Right now I would say 
less. But if the patient says okay, we have to do a home visit or escort to the clinic or escort to a medical 
appointment. That rarely has been popping up. Not that much. 
Aaron Paige (00:40:55): 
Okay. But it was more often in the past. 
Ashley Hall (00:40:57): 
Right. . And now when COVID is going up now the medical visits have to decrease a little bit. 
Aaron Paige (00:41:05): 
I see. So actually, with COVID, you've increasingly spent less time in the field. 
Ashley Hall (00:41:13): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:41:13): 
I think you kind of spoke to this, but I'll ask it anyway. And if you're like, no, you already talked about it, 
just say, 'we already talked about this.' Did you have any kind of formative experience growing up or in 
your life that inspired you to want to take on this kind of role, as a connector, as a peer, whether it was 
volunteer or in the way you're doing it now? 
Ashley Hall (00:41:47): 
Everything kind of started when I got diagnosed with HIV in the service. When I got diagnosed in 2006 
and then I went to school in 2009, everything was HIV was talked about. I talked about HIV, like it was 
something. I didn't really disclose it, but I mentioned HIV in school and in the support groups and stuff. 
That's how all it got started when I got diagnosed. In the military, I worked at a healthcare facility in 
Virginia and I didn't figure me working there and delivering stuff to an ---- clinic was something. But then 
when I became diagnosed, I became a client in the place that I work at. Seeing that, it kind of gave me 
opportunities. Like, I can do this in Georgia. 
Ashley Hall (00:43:02): 
I didn't want to stay in Virginia. I didn't want to extend my time in the service. I didn't want to go to 
North Carolina. I didn't want to go to California. So it was like, I have to go home, come home and do 
this work. Then when I got home, I regretted it. I could have just stayed in Virginia for another 14 years. 
But I didn't want do that. Because when you're diagnosed in service by active duty, your sea time is 
done and you have to be within 50 miles of a hospital or a VA facility. And I didn't want more shore duty 
time in the Navy, especially on the East Coast. Anything close to Washington, DC, they look at you a little 
different than if you were in California. And I didn't want to continue that role. 
Aaron Paige (00:44:00): 
In terms of the stigma. Yeah. And you felt that when you were... 
Ashley Hall (00:44:05): 
Yeah, I did. I really did. Because when you were working, your job description was a supply person. Now 
you are working as an administrative person, doing whatever they want you to do. They look at you and 
say, 'okay, he's not doing supply work, what is he doing?' And you got to tell a story. You got to tell them 
something different. I already know what I'm doing. It kind of makes the whole thing feel like I was 
embarrassed to be here. And that particular base in Virginia was the worst for me. It was the worst for 
me. I just couldn't stay there to be active duty. Doing whatever. Especially, DC was two hours away. I 
couldn't do it. I just couldn't do it. I could see myself being in trouble, under military law for doing 
something really stupid. And then having the HIV diagnosis makes it worse. 
Aaron Paige (00:45:24): 
As a Peer do you work with your clients to also help them navigate some of the socio-emotional kind of 
challenges that can come with diagnosis or even with coming out with a diagnosis? Is that part of your 
role, even if it's not formally a part of your role, do you find yourself helping individuals in that way? 
Ashley Hall (00:45:53): 
When we have a new patient here, when I meet the patient for the first time I share my story. Listen, I 
am living with HIV. I take Genvoya. When I first came to New York, my viral load was nearly 400-some 
thousand, now it's undetectable for the last six years. I tell everything. I tell my story to give them that, 
knowing that you're not alone. I'm here with you. You was fighting for housing. I was too. You was 
fighting for food. I was too. You lived in the shelter. I did too. I basically put it all on the line, put it all on 
the table. Let them know that I'm here. I don't point to the picture. 
Ashley Hall (00:46:46): 
We just talk. We'll have a 30 minute talk and we just talk. If you are newly diagnosed, the coordinator 
normally does the education piece, but I do tell my story a little bit more if he is newly diagnosed, only 
because we don't know how the patient will take their news of being newly diagnosed for HIV. I even 
share how I got newly diagnosed in 2006. I go way back and tell them what happened with me. The 
good and the bad. Sometimes telling the patient the good and the bad, especially the bad, and the 
worst. And then telling them the good outcome. It just helps a lot. Ten days from now, it'll be 16 years 
for me. May 16 will be 16 years being HIV positive. I go way back. I go way back and I tell it way back. 
Living with HIV as a Peer in New York, to me, I could be able to share my story. I could be able to share 
my status. Back home, I couldn't do that. I couldn't do that. 
Ashley Hall (00:48:07): 
I didn't even think I could do that picture here, back home, because you don't know who can... What can 
a person do? As an African American male raised in the church, they look at you and say, 'You got AIDS. 
You got it from dudes.' You get all that. You get all that stigma back home in Georgia. And me 
personally, I couldn't deal with it. I didn't want to deal with it. If it came to me, I didn't, I was tired of 
hiding. I got to walk everyday and pretend at something. I got to pretend that I'm having a good day 
when I'm not having a good day in Georgia. And I'm around family more than I'm around friends. It's not 
good. I don't like sharing that piece, because sometimes that to me gets a little emotional. But I share it. 
I share it. But when I did that piece here and then moved here and I think I was 30-something years old, 
between 35-36 years old. I just told me and the world, I don't care. It got to come out. 
Ashley Hall (00:49:30): 
It got to come out. I have to be able to be free, live free and live happy. I'm able to tell that to my clients. 
If they say, okay, I need you to do a health fair and tell my story, I'll do it at the health fair. I did it in 
Albany once. I told my story. Listen, I'm 41 now. Listen, either you are going to love me or not. But back 
home, that piece of me saying, I really want to share this, I know I'm going to get shot in the face. Not 
physically, but shot in the face mentally. And nobody wants to hear bad news, to a person that is living 
with HIV. That's not a good thing. To go back to what you said about me having that personal 
relationship, sometimes dealing with people who have HIV, I kind of treat that very personal to me. We 
humans, we live our life, we make mistakes. Somebody who has diabetes made a mistake eating too 
much sugar. Or somebody who has Hep-C shooting needles. Or someone who has a car accident. We all 
make mistakes as human beings. 
Ashley Hall (00:51:03): 
Having COVID. We all make mistakes. We don't follow rules. We all make mistakes. But don't look at us 
different because HIV is not going anywhere. To follow up on that question you asked before, I treat 
that personally. And I love my work to do. I love my patients. I love the people who live with HIV. I made 
new moms and dads, new aunts and uncles, new cousins, new sisters and brothers. Listen, I learn a lot 
from people. My coordinator, my boss has been doing this work since 93'. 
Ashley Hall (00:51:44): 
In 93' I was 12 years old....I could learn a lot from my coordinator. I think of her as a good role model for 
us two Peers, me and my colleague, doing the work that we do and doing it well. I would tell her, like I 
tell you and tell anybody else, I would look out for my people the best way I can in the scope of my 
work, within my boundaries. I don't care. I will do it. I love them. If they transition...when I was a client, 
when they transitioned, are they were no longer with us, I would attend every person's funeral 
celebration. I attended every funeral to this day. That's the support. I go above and beyond. You will not 
see a family member going to somebody who live with HIV. ----------. Let me go. I'm going. You want to 
charge vacation? Charge it. I'm going. If they are my patient or not, I'm going. I was part of the Adult Day 
Program. I wasn't getting paid for the program. I was just a client. I was the president of a client 
committee. I'm going. 
Ashley Hall (00:53:19): 
I'm going to show ownership. I'm going to show representation. I'm going to show that I'm the bigger 
person. We have a consumer advisory board here, for Sun River. If a client brings me a problem, I'm 
here to argue. Let's go. I'm here to argue. We had ------ two weeks ago and I presented the case where I 
had a client who came in here for five hours. And I preached to the choir, why my client was here for 
five hours. I told senior leadership this cannot happen. If we lose these patients, we don't have a job. 
Our certificates that we get from New York state would be no good. We cannot have this. We cannot 
have this. I even recommend that we put more Peers in these offices, in these spaces. If you want to 
have somebody who does HIV, Hep-C, MAT and PREP and all this stuff, if you had none of these people 
with these experiences, why are they here? Why are they here? You would want somebody who's a 
Peer saying, 'good morning. How you doing? Can you tell me where I need to go?' Just don't come here 
and collect a paycheck. Do the service. Clients are here for a reason. They need our help. Yeah, I take 
that personally. 
Aaron Paige (00:54:48): 
Yeah. Without the peers, you lose the connective tissue in that way. And you lose people. The stakes are 
very high. As I think, you are expressing. 
Ashley Hall (00:55:02): 
People coming out of prisons, living with HIV. Just don't just give them to a ____that says 'do you.' Can't 
do that. Can't do that. They already got a record. They made a mistake. Don't look at the correctional 
piece. Don't look at the HIV. Just help them. Let's help them. Let's educate, lets link them, l'et's help 
them. They give them that support. When they say 'Ashley, I got it. Thank you for...' Then, they got it. 
They got it. They got it. But I'm not done with them. I'm not done with them. You can tell me, I got it 
right now. Okay. Nine times out of ten, you'll call me a week later and say, 'I need you to do this for me. 
If it's in my boundaries, I will help the best way I can. 
Aaron Paige (00:55:58): 
It sounds like a part of your job is also advocacy within the FQHC itself. 
Ashley Hall (00:56:07): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:56:08): 
And so when you see the system here failing your clients or patients, your role, and I don't know if this is 
a part of the job description or what you've taken on yourself, but one of your roles is to speak back to 
that system and to make sure that the people that you're working with are getting what they need? 
Ashley Hall (00:56:28): 
I am part of the consumer advisory board, every. Almost very CBO has a CAB where they have clients, or 
peers get on and address the concerns and the needs of the clients. I do it for my 37 clients that I share 
with this office. I will talk to leadership and I will argue with leadership. It gets to the VPs. It goes up to 
the chiefs, up to the CEO. We just can't have this. Our executive office used to be down on 23rd street 
inNew York City. Now our executive office is out of Peekskill. So if it's in the Hudson Valley, they can't 
make that visit to New York City every day. This has got to be done. It has to be done. 
Aaron Paige (00:57:25): 
Seems like the foundation of the peer-client relationship really does start with trust. I mean, as you were 
saying, telling your story at the outset and presenting that, and I don't know if you see it as vulnerability, 
but presenting your story, and that truth, really sets the stage for the relationship. 
Ashley Hall (00:57:50): 
Correct. 
Aaron Paige (00:57:53): 
Yeah. It just seems like a really important way of building that kind of trust, that's necessary. And I don't 
know if you see that it helps them to open up, but... 
Ashley Hall (00:58:05): 
I don't know, once you walk out these doors, it's a mind of their own, to be honest. But at the very least, 
for me as a Peer, I did my part. And doing our part, as a Peer, it's very critical to the client. We share our 
story. We do our scope of work. We do what we can do to support the client.Whether they get it, that's 
good. When they don't get it, it' okay. At least we did our part. If they say thank you and do something 
totally different, we got that thank you piece in. Thank you. Listen, this is New York City. I get it. You 
don't know what can happen when you walk out of the door. We don't know. We just honestly don't 
know. But at the very least, you are here for a reason. So let's work, let's work together. 
Aaron Paige (00:58:59): 
What qualities, Ashley, do you see in yourself that you think make you good at doing the job that you 
do? 
Ashley Hall (00:59:06): 
The only thing I could tell you is when I moved to New York, I think that piece kind of set the foundation 
for me is coming to New York, period. I look at the five boroughs. It's like, oh my God, this is a big city. 
And you could do a lot in the big city. You can walk around, maneuver around things. As Brightpoint 
Health, we only had the five boroughs. Now we got Sun River and now we have three regions. I think 
moving here is the reason why I'm doing a lot of stuff. My time is valued. I put quality in the work that I 
do. Who heard of HRA? Who heard of HASA until I came here? Who heard of access to good housing 
here? In Georgia, there is none of that happening. They put you in the shelter and a couple weeks later 
they put you in supportive housing and you have to share it with someone. Up here, in supportive 
housing, you got your own space. That's good. 
Ashley Hall (01:00:18): 
For me, I didn't go to supportive housing. I was patient and waited the whole three years and I got 
independent living. But it was good that I got independent living, because I couldn't get independent 
living in Georgia. I had to stay with family and I already had to hide my diagnosis. It's very hard. I've got 
to take a Gemvoya pill or Truvada. I had to hide the pills. I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. No, no, no. 
Now, when I go to bed, I can put my Gemvoya pill right here. If anybody walks into my house and sees a 
Gemvoya and don't like it, you got two options, you can stay here or you can leave. That picture is on my 
door. When you walk in, it is right there. Living with HIV since 2006. Once again, if you don't like it, you 
can leave. If you love it, have a seat. 
Aaron Paige (01:01:22): 
What parts of your person, your self, make you good at your job, whether it's compassion or what you 
might define as your inner strength? 
Ashley Hall (01:01:43): 
I'm always willing to embrace change. I'm always trustworthy. I'm always presenting myself in a positive, 
have a positive attitude. I'm very intelligent. They like Peers that are very intelligent. I don't know. I'm 
thinking. We had core values here before we came to the Hudson Valley. I'm trying not to memorize the 
core values. 
Ashley Hall (01:02:36): 
But I remember, embrace was one of them. My heart is there. My heart is always there. Whether a 
client likes it or not, I'm always here. I'm a military person, so you could be a drill sergeant to me, I don't 
care. You could just shoot me out. All I can do is listen, right? Have that motivational interview and just 
listen, you know? What can I do? But I think that the answer to that question really is this: I'm just 
driven to work with patients, as a Peer. 
Aaron Paige (01:03:19): 
It sounds like you're always on the frontline. You're just always going to be right there. Pushing forward. 
Ashley Hall (01:03:28): 
Correct. Like I say on that poster, 'we give the orders, not HIV.' 
Aaron Paige (01:03:40): 
Could you give an example of a moment as a Peer where you felt the importance of the work that you 
do? 
Ashley Hall (01:03:50): 
The work that I do is involving adherence. The main thing is adherence to HIV. Ooh, it's hard to say. 
Aaron Paige (01:04:07): 
I don't know if it helps to think of a specific, again, without using somebody's name, but if you've had a 
client over the years who you helped, what you did for them. 
Ashley Hall (01:04:21): 
While my program that I am in does adherence, I had one patient, moved to New York, had some issues 
with housing. Most of all the clients have housing concerns, but this one had housing concerns and 
mental health all at the same time. The mental health was overdoing the housing piece. For me, working 
with mental health here and working with his caseworker there, we would apply to the housing program 
for those who have severe mental health issues. And like I said, he is not from here. So we had to get 
documentation. Birth certificate, all this from a different state. I took him to the center. I took him to the 
housing interview. I took him all around the place, all around New York City. The housing worker called 
me, the HASA worker called me. I called him back. The patient didn't have a phone, but the patient 
makes his appointments. I gave the patient updates, constant updates. I don't see this often, a person 
getting housing within a certain timeframe, but this person got housing within one month. 
Aaron Paige (01:06:04): 
Wow. Wow. 
Ashley Hall (01:06:08): 
Because we had that communication. We pushed that process. I said I was going to do what I can do and 
pushed it. The patient got his own one bedroom apartment. 
Aaron Paige (01:06:20): 
Amazing. 
Ashley Hall (01:06:22): 
And has been there for a while. Unfortunately, he had to give it up because I think he had family issues. I 
think he had a family member that was no longer there or was too ill to be alone, and so he had to leave 
New York and go back down south. But my part was done because I was there from start to finish. But 
when you have to take care of personal things to deal with family, I understand. But to get him a house 
within one month, versus waiting almost a whole year. 
Aaron Paige (01:07:07): 
Yeah. 
Ashley Hall (01:07:08): 
I think he got blessed. 
Aaron Paige (01:07:10): 
Because yeah, I imagine that... 
Ashley Hall (01:07:14): 
He said, bring your documents together. He went and got the documents. I said, this person is a good 
person. We did the doc. We wrote the letters and the worker did the process, the paperwork and the 
checks. In one month he was in an apartment. 
Aaron Paige (01:07:29): 
That's amazing. Because people can remain housing insecure for quite a long time in the system. 
Ashley Hall (01:07:34): 
Which presents challenges to getting access to healthcare. Being in transitional housing to healthcare, 
not the best. Because sometimes if you been in transition housing, at least in my experience, the staff 
there could be the worst. So you don't want to come here with the mentality that you just got from the 
staff at the housing here, because now, getting here, you are going to come in front of a patient with 
ABC of problems. How am I going to do it. How can I deal with it? As a peer, I could do so much, but I'm 
not the clinical piece to it. 
Aaron Paige (01:08:20): 
Right. 
Ashley Hall (01:08:23): 
But to get him housed in one month, in a brand new apartment too. 
Aaron Paige (01:08:29): 
Yeah. That's an incredible victory. I imagine that felt really good. 
Ashley Hall (01:08:33): 
In the Bronx. Now, you know, in New York city, they're migrating people to one borough out of a 
different borough and Manhattan's one of the most expensive boroughs. I think that was the only story I 
could tell you that that's the one I pushed the most. The patient was already undetectable. So it was just 
a matter of getting that housing piece together. To this day we don't know the status of the patient. 
When he left New York, that was it from that patient. 
Aaron Paige (01:09:16): 
I do think that it's the fact that as a community health worker, as a peer, you're so tuned in to the social 
determinants of health and that you're not only focused on that person's treatment, but everything else 
in their life that also is affecting the wellbeing. There's so much value in that. There's so much power in 
that. I wish it was a model that we saw throughout our healthcare system, but I'm thankful that it exists 
here, and in other institutions... 
Ashley Hall (01:09:59): 
Of course, I've got to get paid for what I'm doing, but if I could take that piece out of it and say, okay, 
like you just said, the value of what we doing as a Peer, you shouldn't put no money on that. It's so 
precious for me, and it's valuable for me. I get to enjoy doing it. Especially when they gave us an 
opportunity to become Peer certified with New York State, it was remarkable, to have a certificate that 
can go statewide. So they say, I could be a peer in Hudson Valley or Long Island or Buffalo somewhere. 
That certificate goes with me in the state of New York. And I'm like, this is beautiful. And I could do the 
same thing I did in New York City in a different region. Now I can just take me and my board and my 
work and me, my happy smile, my happy personality, elsewhere. This is remarkable. I'm really happy 
that I'm up here. 
Aaron Paige (01:11:14): 
I'm looking at the wall here, next to your computer and there are a whole bunch of certificates up there. 
They are pretty impressive. One of those is the New York State, peer certificate. 
Ashley Hall (01:11:30): 
That one's expired. That one's old. This is the most recent one, right here. I'm due for a renewal this 
year. I'm on board to get that renewal, because I think I got my hours already. But you don't see these 
elsewhere. This is remarkable, what New York is doing for us Peers. Because we do the work. If you 
could take all our Peers here, at Sun River and replace them with the front desk staff, I honestly believe 
you would see a lot of changes and a lot of results. Good results. Because people come in here and say 
'I'm coming for a paycheck' and they're not seeing the patient as a patient. They are seeing the patient 
as a paycheck. And if that's the case, then you are in the wrong profession. 
Aaron Paige (01:12:38): 
Or as a consumer and not as a human being. 
Ashley Hall (01:12:43): 
Correct. Correct. But hey, I'm just one person, one body. 
Aaron Paige (01:12:50): 
Making a huge impact. 
Ashley Hall (01:12:51): 
Huge impact. Since you mentioned advocacy, I did advocacy on the local, state, and federal level at one 
point. So there are so many things I do present when I do advocacy work. In terms of Sun River, on this 
level, all I could do as one body is present. To get my fellow Peer colleagues to help me out, is something 
I need to do in another route. But I'm just one body. Because I think that they need more peers to do 
this work. Before COVID they had Peers do the program and the Peers met with their peers and was 
engaged in whatever, and not staff being involved, because let staff be case workers and coordinators. 
Leave them alone. Let the Peer do the work. Let us do the work. But COVID came and that just errrr. But 
hey, I'm just one voice. 
Aaron Paige (01:14:10): 
The work you're doing Ashley is really amazing. 
Ashley Hall (01:14:13): 
Even today, like I said, I got clients here. They saw me already. I'm like, if it's urgent, I want to assist you. 
If it's an urgent need, I will assist you while I'm here. But if it's not urgent, I just respectfully ask that you 
wait until Monday and they are okay. They respect that decision. It's almost that that trust has got to be 
very strict. You have got to have that strict trust relationship between me, as a Peer, and the client. I'm 
not able to meet with you today, do the A, B and C. Can we meet another time? Having that 
communication going, that's my biggest pet peeve. If we can't communicate properly, this will not grow. 
If you can't water the seeds, it will not grow. 
Aaron Paige (01:15:03): 
That's true. Do you see people of all ages, gender, race? 
Ashley Hall (01:15:10): 
All genders. We see men, women, and trans. Black, White, Hispanic. The youngest client I have is 30-
something. The oldest is in their sixties. 
Aaron Paige (01:15:27): 
Wow. 
Ashley Hall (01:15:33): 
My math is wrong. Yeah. In their sixties. So in that range. Documented, undocumented. We have that as 
well. 
Aaron Paige (01:15:44): 
What's the estimated breakdown?Do you see predominantly individuals who are Latino? Black /African 
American versus white? 
Ashley Hall (01:15:57): 
It could be 50-50 Hispanic and African American, but if the Hispanic is mostly Spanish-speaking, because 
my colleague is Puerto Rican, I get her to get involved with that one. But if their primary is English, then 
Spanish, then I can help. I could route it through me. 
Aaron Paige (01:16:22): 
Okay. Yeah. The language piece is in important one, right? And you don't need to work with an 
interpreter then, because you have your colleague? 
Ashley Hall (01:16:30): 
Correct. They do give us a program here. I could just put the Sun River code in. They call me and they 
speak with the patient. 
Aaron Paige (01:16:44): 
I know they have that service here. 
Ashley Hall (01:16:46): 
They have it here. I could use that option. I don't want to use that option. Because my supervisor is 
Dominican, I get her on the phone, if we are in person. And if they are not available, then I get 
somebody here, that's on site, that's bilingual to help me out. I try not to use that source. 
Aaron Paige (01:17:07): 
That's it for my questions. I think we could go on talking because you have so much to share. But I also 
don't want to keep you from your breakfast. Ashley, I appreciate you so much taking the time to talk and 
to share your story in this way. 
Ashley Hall (01:17:28): 
I got deep in some parts. This is good. You know, I was slightly nervous, but then I went through it 
because it just...We were talking about something that was off the record and it just, it kind of drove it 
in. Yeah. So it kind of helped. 
Aaron Paige (01:17:48): 
I hope you feel good about, everything that you were able to share. But is there anything else that you 
want to share about yourself that you want to make sure is on the record here? And again this 
interview, it's going to be in the Library of Congress, so it's going to be available in perpetuity, as long as 
the United States continues to exist as a country, and we have a Library of Congress, it's going to be part 
of that archive. So if there's anything else that you'd want include... 
Ashley Hall (01:18:18): 
No, I kind of stated it. HIV may live with us, but it doesn't win. Dear family, I'm okay. 
Aaron Paige (01:18:38): 
Yeah. 
Ashley Hall (01:18:39): 
It's true to my heart. It's a passion. And whether a person doesn't like it, it's not up to you to like it or 
not. Consumers are consumers that need help and you might not be living with HIV, but you are a 
consumer of some counterpart. If we look at you that way and say something, then we will be in the 
wrong. But we don't do that. We can't go up to somebody who has diabetes and say, 'oh, you need to 
stop drinking sugar.' I won't do that. Don't treat somebody bad who has HIV. That is a human. Humans 
make mistakes. 
Aaron Paige (01:19:36): 
It does seem like that experience that you had growing up of having to hide aspects of yourself from 
those who were closest to you and your family, really has shaped... 
Ashley Hall (01:19:49): 
Personally, I think that family was the trigger that number one, allowed me to move to New York, and 
number two, to overcome what I overcame. I wanna be undetectable for the rest of my life. I want to 
live happy, long and peaceful. I want to be prosperous. I want to be able to be engaged. I want to be 
able to show true colors, show true passion, be exemplary in my work, and have positive outcomes. 
Aaron Paige (01:20:25): 
Thank you. 
Ashley Hall (01:20:26): 
No, thank you. 
Aaron Paige (01:20:27): 
Oh, I'm doing the easier job. 
Ashley Hall (01:20:35): 
I did it! 
Aaron Paige (01:20:36): 
Yes. 
Ashley Hall (01:20:36): 
I did it.