Library of Congress
[Letter from Alton C. Morris to Carita Doggett Corse, August 20, 1939] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc_corresp.afc_corresp_cor020
[Letter from Alton C. Morris to Carita Doggett Corse,
August 20, 1939]
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Gainesville
C O P Y
University Station Gainesville, Florida August 20, 1939
Dr. Carita Doggett Corse Jacksonville Florida
Dear Dr. Corse:
Thanks for your invitation to attend the private-audition of the recordings which the Federal
Writers' Project is now making. I shall do my best to be in Jacksonville next Sunday, even
though I've planned a week-end field trip to Tarpon Springs. Please let me know definitely
the exact hour and place where the audition will be held.
Allow me to congratulate you and your collectors for the excellent information you are
getting with these songs. If you keep up the excellent standard set by “Jump Isobel, Slide
Water,” these songs are going to be significant as historical and sociological documents as
well as musical transcriptions.
I note that the expedition will probably be near Tampa near the end of the coming week.
Would it be possible for Stetson Kennedy to join me in Tarpon Springs on Friday evening
to collect folksongs from the Greek settlers? One of my students well-known in Tarpon
Springs has located some folksingers there. He and I plan to leave here Thursday
evening. If your expedition could join me Friday evening, I should be glad to go ahead and
locate the singers and have them ready so as to expedite the recording. Whatever original
records might be made under such joint cooperation could be deposited in the Library
Library of Congress
[Letter from Alton C. Morris to Carita Doggett Corse, August 20, 1939] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc_corresp.afc_corresp_cor020
of Congress, as you are now doing. Should I need some of the songs for the study I am
now making I could get them from your duplicate or get the Library of Congress to out a
duplicate for me.
Please let me have your reaction to such a joint enterprise.
Cordially yours, Alton C. Morris Editor, Southern Folklore Quarterly