Library of Congress
[Letter from Carita Doggett Corse to Harold Spivacke, October 2, 1939] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc_corresp.afc_corresp_cor038
[Letter from Carita Doggett Corse to Harold Spivacke,
October 2, 1939]
Works Progress Administration of Florida
49 WEST DUVAL STREET JACKSONVILLE
Roy Schroder State Administrator
October 2, 1939
Dr. Harold Spivacke Chief, Division of Music Library of Congress Washington, D. C.
Dear Dr. Spivacke:
Would you be so good as to furnish us with a list of the Greek songs which have been
recorded in Florida? We have several Greeks who say they can sing folksongs but we
hesitate to record them because we are afraid of duplication. These songs would include
the records made by Professor Morris which were forwarded to you in September. We
are very anxious to have some comment on these records as we are sure we could
improve our technique if we had such remarks for guidance. So far we have followed
the methods of Mr. Halpert (whose recordings we witnessed in Florida in June) and the
folklore manuals of the Writers' and Music Projects. A note from Mr. Charles Seegar of
the Music Project warned us that this guidance was open to misinterpretation, especially
evident in our record 16. We were glad to get this comment, but inasmuch as we thought
record 16 the best one we had made, we have been somewhat at a loss since that time.
If you would comment on that one record (a Spanish record, made in Ybor City, Tampa) it
would be very helpful.
Library of Congress
[Letter from Carita Doggett Corse to Harold Spivacke, October 2, 1939] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc_corresp.afc_corresp_cor038
So far storms have made it impossible to record the songs of the shrimp fleets. We have
made two attempts, but the boats could not go out and the workers will not sing unless
they are actually engaged in preparing shrimp for market. As soon as the weather permits
we will try again.
Sincerely yours, Carita Doggett Corse Carita Doggett Corse State Supervisor, Statewide
Writers' Project
CDC:fm