Library of Congress
[Letter from Harold Spivacke to Carita Doggett Corse, August 16, 1939] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc_corresp.afc_corresp_cor016
[Letter from Harold Spivacke to Carita Doggett Corse,
August 16, 1939]
August 16, 1939
Dr. Carita Doggett Corse State Director Federal Writers Project 49 West Duval Street
Jacksonville, Florida
Dear Dr. Corse:
I am very sorry to hear that there has been so much confusion in our shipments to you.
We sent you the fifty records which we had on hand by prepaid express in the same
shipment that contained the machine and other equipment. We ordered from Presto four
needles to be sent to you direct and included in the order a request for additional records
to replenish our supply. We only sent fifty discs to you because most collectors do not care
to carry more than that while traveling around. We had intended to send the second batch
when needed.
I have no idea how you came to receive thirty-two needles and any records at all direct
from Presto. Are you certain that these records were not those sent you from the Library
by express? They were in Presto containers. We are taking all steps to clear this situation
up having written to Presto and sent a tracer to the express company.
When this project was first approved we were under the impression that the recording
was to be done by Miss Zora Neale Hurston. We have since heard that she is no longer
connected with your project. This is a matter of concern to us because we naturally
hesitate to place such valuable machinery in the hands of inexperienced parties to say
nothing of the possible waste of expensive discs and needles. I trust you will be able to
reassure me on this point.
Library of Congress
[Letter from Harold Spivacke to Carita Doggett Corse, August 16, 1939] http://www.loc.gov/resource/afc_corresp.afc_corresp_cor016
The time limitation of August 31 in my original telegram to you was influenced by the
information obtainable in newspapers. It seemed that the whole WRITERS PROJECT
might go out of existence on August 31 unless continued under local sponsorship. I have
since been informed that there is every liklihood that your project will be continued. As
soon as this is officially confirmed, will you please make a formal request through the
Works Progress Administration for an extension of time. I have every reason to believe
there will be no difficulty in obtaining for you a reasonable extension of the loan.
Sincerely yours, Harold Spivacke Chief Division of Music
HS w