Library of Congress
Boy's Keep Away from the Girls, I Say (part 2 of 2)/Just One Penny http://www.loc.gov/item/afcnye000048
Boy's Keep Away from the Girls, I Say (part 2 of 2)/Just
One Penny
Boy's Keep Away from the Girls, I Say (part 2 of 2)
AFS 1613 B1
When a man says, “He knows women.” I say, “There's no one at home.” You may read the
sky and weather, But you never can read their dome.
They powder on the pink, give the once over feint, They would have you think that they are
almost dead. At the end of a strife suddenly they come to life, And throw the rolling pin on
at your head.
“So boys keep away from the girls.” I say, “And give them lot's of room. For mind when you
wed they will bang you till your dead, With a ball headed end of the broom.”
Experience, I know is best so you must use your common sense, You'll find them the
greatest problem and what a terrible expense. Like a Chinese puzzle their mouth you
cannot muzzle, And you never can tell what is coming next.
They'll get your little goat while you grab your hat and coat, You'll leave the house so warm
and sorely vexed. Yes, they are funny little things that they can't live with or live without,
And whether they catch you or make us slaves, we like to have them about.
They may act like crickets some will use us for tickets, But they'll [always forcing keep
them?] in our sight. For who would want a world where there isn't any girls, For there
would be no one to start a fight.
Library of Congress
Boy's Keep Away from the Girls, I Say (part 2 of 2)/Just One Penny http://www.loc.gov/item/afcnye000048
“So boys keep away from the girls”, I say, “And give them lot's of room. For mind when you
wed they will bang you till your dead, With a ball headed end of a broom.”
Just One Penny
AFS 1613 B2
In the street one winter's evening, Stood a little boy and said, “Just one penny please, oh,
mister, Just one penny to buy bread.”
“Just one penny's all I ask you, Just one penny and no more, God in Heaven will surely
bless you, And, perhaps increase your store.”
Trembling voice, in cloths so tattered, Face so thin, pathetic, sad, Yet, imploringly he'd
whisper, “Just one penny to buy bread.”
“Father died when I a baby, Mother worked, helped us a home, But in time her strength all
left her, Hunger, often to us come.”
“Just one penny's all I ask you, Just one penny and no more, God in Heaven will surely
bless you, And, perhaps increase your store.”
“Now and then I chore for neighbors, But we're often underfed, Mother weeps, I know
she's failing, And may die for want of bread.”
“Just one penny's all I ask you, Just one penny, oft he said, Mother's sick and much I
worry, That she'll die for want of bread.”
“Just one penny's all I ask you, Just one penny and no more, God in Heaven will surely
bless you, And, perhaps increase your store.”