Library of Congress
We're Going to Pump Out Lake Erie/In a Storm at Sea/A Canal Dance http://www.loc.gov/item/afcnye000049
We're Going to Pump Out Lake Erie/In a Storm at Sea/A
Canal Dance
We're Going to Pump Out Lake Erie
AFS 1614 A1
The season is dry, old-timer, Yes and water won't run uphill. So let us do our best, and
forget the rest, So and keep our levels filled.
So we're going to pump out Lake Erie, We're going to begin next June. And when we get
done you can tell by the sun, They'll be whiskers on the moon.
For the canal needs the waters to keep things afloat, And I never will put wheels on my
old canal boat. For I love the old towpath and anything that floats, So you cannot make a
wagon off my grand old boat.
The portage lake sometimes fail us, And often are somewhat slow. Oh it's then for rain we
would have to wait, For loaded we cannot go.
We will watch our gates and paddle, Yes, the tumbles and waves [swift?] too. They will
help us along with their merry song, And we'll see that we get through.
So we're going to pump out Lake Erie, We're going to begin next June. And when we get
done you can tell by the sun, They'll be whiskers on the moon.
For the canal needs the waters to keep things a float, And I never will put wheels on my
old canal boat. For I love the old towpath and anything that floats, And you cannot make a
wagon of my grand old boat.
Library of Congress
We're Going to Pump Out Lake Erie/In a Storm at Sea/A Canal Dance http://www.loc.gov/item/afcnye000049
In a Storm at Sea
AFS 1614 A2
'Tis a fearful thing in winter, To be scattered by the blast. And to hear the rattling trumpet
thunder, Cut away the mast.
We were crowded in the cabin, Not a sole would dare to sleep. While the hungry sea was
roaring, And the storm was on the deep.
Our ship was like a feather, While the stoutest held his breath. And the angry sea was
roaring, As the breakers threatened death.
So we hovered there in silence, Each one busy in his prayers. “We are lost!” the captain
shouted, As he staggered down the stairs.
Then his little daughter whispered, As she took his icy hands. “Isn't God upon the ocean,
Just the same as on the land?”
Then he kissed the little maiden, And we spoke in better cheer. For we anchored safe in
harbor, While the morn was shining clear.
A Canal Dance
AFS 1614 A3
One night in Cleveland we had a dance, On the weigh lock platform we did prance. It was
ice cream cake, oh, what a time, In a little while the sun did shine.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, oh, what fun, We had that night yes, everyone. The mules would winnow,
kick, and prance, They tried so hard to join our dance.
Library of Congress
We're Going to Pump Out Lake Erie/In a Storm at Sea/A Canal Dance http://www.loc.gov/item/afcnye000049
Dear dad, thought he was young again, So his partner grabbed and did he spin. Till he hit
a nail and took a fall, Yes, and how we laughed, oh, one and all.
And so it was all along the line, We had our fun though it rain or shine. Our deck boats
they would serve as halls, In a corner, music, one and all.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, oh, what fun, We had that night yes, everyone. The mules would winnow,
kick, and prance, They tried so hard to join our dance.