Library of Congress
Take a Trip on the Canal if You Want to Have Fun (part 3 of 3)/ William Was a Royal Lover http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1937002.t14a
Take a Trip on the Canal if You Want to Have Fun (part 3
of 3)/ William Was a Royal Lover
Take a Trip on the Canal if You Want to Have Fun (part 3 of 3)
AFS 1605 A1
Oft after a rain we'd get stuck on a bar, Then rig up our captain's spin blocks for more
power. And if near a lock horse the paddles would swell, For this is unique and I know it
works well.
But now comes excitement, lay over or race, You would have to go son if you would keep
your place. State robbers were late but eventually come, Take a trip on the canal if you
want to have fun.
With mosquitoes and bed bugs we always had wars, The [cuties?] and spars gladly
signal your snores. An old gal and nippers pet your pate and nose, While the pest of the
cupboard would nip at your toes.
The roaches, moth, crickets, were gay allies too, Your food, cloths, and longings, they all
love to chew. I vision creation all lands everyone, No place like the canal if you want to
have fun.
Each day something new Father Time sure had wings, We're busy and happy all nature
would sing. The beautiful scenery was beyond compare, The breath of the waters and
flowers filled the air.
The circus, the acre, anything or show, We're sure of that number exceedingly slow. You'd
wake up and see you were blind, deaf, and dumb, To the real life of living was the way we
had fun.
Library of Congress
Take a Trip on the Canal if You Want to Have Fun (part 3 of 3)/ William Was a Royal Lover http://www.loc.gov/resource/
afc1937002.t14a
So haul in the towline and take up the slack, Take a reef in your shirttail and straighten
your back. Whatever you do be sure, don't forget, Tap the news gently while the cook is on
deck.
Oh, those were gay times and no equal have they, Whatever the weather, we'd run night
and day. If I owned the world on the ditch I would run, For no other place has such oceans
of fun.
William was a Royal Lover
AFS 1605 A2
William was a royal lover, But disobeyed the King's command, His jewel was of humble
station, But to him was most noble grand.
The King's decree must be respected, The foreign service best said he, And keep him
under observation, Not from his jewel, to know or see.
He plead for grace but was rejected, All royal rights he would forfeit, But solid was his royal
master, As upon his throne he proudly sat.
Poor William he was pressed in service, Not from his jewel did he hear, But to his promise
he was faithful, And the thought of her was always dear.
In course of time the King recalled him, William thought that was his promised bride, Not
knowing she was dead and buried, With thoughts of her he was occupied.
When he arrived to her home he hastened, The truth he learned, he wept and cried, The
sunshine of his life had vanished, Soon, soon he sickened and then died.